Cash-register. 
US-1005555-A
Ncr Co
1911-10-10
https://patents.google.com/patent/US1005555A/en
C. F. KETTERING. 
CASH REGISTER. 
APPLICATION FILED JUNE 8, 1906. 
1,005,555, Patented Oct. 10, 1911. 
6 SHEETS-SIIEET 1. 
C. F. KETTERING. 
CASH REGISTER. 
APPLICATION FILED JUNE s, 1906. 
Patented Oct. 10, 1911. 
6 SHEETS-SHEET 2. 
C. E'. KETTERING. 
CASH REGISTER. 
APPLICATION FILED JUNE a, 190s. 
1,005,555, Patented Oct. 10,1911 
 6 SHEETS-SHEET 3. 
C. F. KETTERING. 
CASH REGISTER. 
APPLIUATION FILED JUNE s, 190e. 
Patented. Oct. 10, 1911. 
6 SHEETS-SHEET 4. 
C. E'. KETTBRING. 
CASH REGISTER. 
APPLICATION FILED JUNE s, 1906. 
1,005,555, Patented Oct. 10,1911. 
6 SHEETS-SHEET 5. 
.SPECIAL THANMC E DNT/1675. 
EFINTFIELAY. 
INIJILTUB LIGHT. 
LOCKING LDILS. 
3 Pomr .STARTING swlrcH. 
Sencllng Machine N92. 
SPECIAL TRANSCTIUN @UNT/1675. 
Sending Machine N21.' 
8 Pil/NT HEL/IY. 
3mm summa )z swr rcH. 
@MSW-fw C. P. KETTERING. 
CASH REGISTER. 
APPLICATION FILED JUNE a; 190s. 
1,005,555. Patented ot.1o,1911. 
6 SHEETS-SHEET 6. 
CASH CUUNTER N42. 
GHAN TOTAL CASH CUUNTER CASH COUNTER N91. 
GMND TUT/1L (JH/1R55 COUNTER LCKING HELA Y N EZ URU P 5 EGM EN T S TDP MAG NE T. 
' Locffmc RELAY N: 1. 
 CUNTROLLING LULKINB HEM Y DP JEGMEN T. STOP MAGNET. 
 STARTING colL.\$` m l 5% @who/L Gltmeoaco l .UNTTED sTATEs lPATinvT.- onirica. 
CHARLES F. KNTTEBING, or nAY'roN,` omo, AssrGNon. To THE 'NATIONAL' CASH une7 Is'rnn. COMPANY, o r' DAYTON, omo, A ConnonATrpN lor* omo, (INqonPoaATEn 1N Snecicatioh o! Letters latentfl Application mea :une s, 190s. serial No. 820,849. 
CAsiI-nners'rnlt. 
Patented oct'. 1o, 1911. 
To all whom 'it my concermg Be it known that I, CHARLS F. Karraa- ING- a citizen of the United States, residing at'layton, inf the county of Montgomery and State of Ohio, have invented certain new and useful Improvements in Cash-Registers, of whichI declare the following to be a. full,` clear, and exact description. 
 Bhis invention relates to improvements in registering machines in which the manipula- Ition offene machine, which may be called the sending machine, electrically controls at a Withthese and incidental objects in view, the invention consists in certain novel fea tures o'f construction and combinationY of parts, the essential elements of. which are set forth in appended claims and a preferred form of embodiment of which is hereinafter specifically described with reference to the drawings which accompany and form part of this specification. 
' Of said drawings: Figure l represents a vertical crosssection through the sending machine. Fig. 1 represents a detail view of art of the special transaction setting rack and the electric contacts controlled thereby. Fig.` 1" represents a detail view. of a locking vmechanism for the sending'machine.. Fig. 1c represents a detail cross-sectional view through one of the series of contact making plates. Fig; 2 represents a .cross-sectional view of the Vreceiving machine, cert-ain parts being omitted for the sake of clearness. Fig.A 
2 represents a detail view of ,al switch de? vice for controlling the counter, magnets. Fig. 3 represents a detailview of the operating gears for the receivin machine. ig, 3* represents a to wheels shown in` ig. 3. Fig. 4 represents a detail view of part of rthe-mechanism for throwing inthe counters on the receiving machine. Fig. 5 represents a detail view of one of the locking pawfls used in connection view o one of the gearwith the devices shown in Fig. t. Fig. 6 represents ,a detail View of certain bevel 'gearsur'sed f or operating the transfer shafts 'fo'r thecounters on the receiving machine. Fig. 7 'represents a side elevation of 4the printermechanisml for the receiving machine. Fig -8 represents a detail view of certain lock-'ing mechanisms; and contact making devices; and Figs. 9' and 10 repre s'ent diagrammatic views of the various electrical circuits and' connections. A For the p urp'se of se'tting'forth in a general way' the construction ,of the. devices which have been spe'eifically adopted to carry out thebroad objects mentioned above, it maybe statedl that thev sending machine comprises a' series offsetting" elements which when adjusted to diferential positions effet the adjustment of certain contact making V'devices yto dmerential positions; and when-this sending machine is operated by the turning of a crank handle or other suitable means, this results in the closing of a circuit through a 'motor attached to the driving shaft of the receiving machine so as to operate said receiving machine. At the same time a circuit is established through a corresponding s et of Contact plates lin the recelvmg machine so ,as to' makea live contact point out of the particular one of these Contact lates which corresponds to the set-4 ting positionofthe sending machine. This making 'of such a live contact at the receiving machine results in an electromagnet being'energized tostop and vlock a dinerentially movable rack at a certain point in its movement corresponding to the diderential extent of' movement predetermined by the sending machine. -The receiving machine also carries a series of independent counters which are normally out of operative position and any one of which or combination of which may be thrown into operation as predetermined by whichever sending machine is operated. The operation of the driving mechanism of the receiving machine results in the restoration ofthe aforesaid displaced racks to normal position whereby to actuate whichever counter or counters have been thrown into operative position by the manipulation of the corresponding sending n1achine. Provisions are also made for unlocking the receiving machine from any one of the sending machines and for also locking all of the other sending machines except the one which is being operated` and for visually indicating at such other machines that some other machine is in use. In addition, the setting elements of the particular sending machine which is operated are themselves automatically locked until the receiving machine has completely finished its o eration, 
' and as soon as the sending machine as been tremities carry rack segments 22 meshing with the teeth of the vertical rack bars 23 which at their upper ends also have another set of teeth meshing with a pinion on the side ofindicator wheels 24. These levers 20 move over the ordinary form of scale on the front of the machine so as to be set differentially at any desired point according to the amount to be registered. Upon the side of each rack bar there is attached a block 25 which (as shown `in Fig'. 1) is separated from the rack bar 23 by an insulating strip 26, the block being attached to the rack by screws which are also suitably insulated from the block. Suitably seated in the lower part of this block are two spring-pressed plungers 30 and 31. The plunger 30 makes a contact with a series of contact disks 32 suitably insulated from each other by thin strips 33 of insulating material. These contact disks 32 are all mounted upon a rod 34 which has a suitable insulating collar to insulate the disk from the supporting rod. The plunger 31 makes contact with a vertical rod 35 which extends parallel to the rod 34 and is insulated from the supporting bar of the machine in which it is mounted by means of insulating collars 36. In the normal zero position of any lever 20, its plunger 30 rests upon'the lowest contact disk 32 (as shown in Fig. l)v which disk is the zero contact disk. When any lever is pulled downward to be set for value amounts from 1 to 9, the raising of the rack bar 23l carries the plunger 30 successively along the various contact disks 32. These disks have extending from them arms 37 which are adapted to have wires soldered to them to extend to a set of corresponding contact disks in the tact disksv 32. That is, this common rod 35 has.attached to it the common lead wire from the battery or other source of electric energy, and the current then'flows through the plunger 31, block 25 and plunger 30 into the particular contactdisk which the plunger 30 touches, and this arrangement of contact disks and common is repeated at the receivingmachine as will presently be described so as to energize the proper contact disk at the receiving machine. On the lower portion of each rack bar 23 is fastened a rack 40 having beveled teeth which engage a plunger 41 supported in a cross bar of the machine and spring-pressed to normally engage the rack 40. The forward end of this plunger engages a set screw projecting from a rock frame 42 pivoted upon a transverse shaft 43 and carrying a forwardly extending arm 44 which has a roller 45 mounted in it. This roller 45 normally st-ands opposite a notch 46 formed in a disk fast upon the main operating shaft 47 of the machine. This shaft is arranged to be rotated by means of any suitable crank handle or lever or motor to effectthe necessary registration or printing vat this sending machlne after the setting 'levers have been set.l No such registering vor printing mechanism is shown herein as any one of the various well known forms may be adapted to this purpose. While any lever is being set the rack 40 acts upon the plunger to rock the frame 42 to carry the roller 45 into the notch 46 and lock the machine while any lever'is occupying any improper intermediate position between successive vvalue points. This same rock frame 42 is arranged to be locked subsequently by a pawl 48 so as'to prevent any movement of the levers 20 after the receiving machine has started its operation. An electro-magnet 49 operates a bell crank armature 50 to raise the horizontal arm of said bell crank lever upon which the pawl 48 rests, and carry the pawl upward into posit-ion forward of the frame 42 so -as to prevent the rocking of said frame and thus prevent any levers from being moved. This magnet 49 is controlled by the receiving machine as will be described later in connection with the electric circuits. Thesending machine normally stands locked and is unlocked by the operation of. the clerks lever, this clerks lever being exactly similar to the construction above described but having in addition to the segment rack 22, an additional rack 60 (see Fig. 1) which when the clerks lever is operated acts upon the lug 61 on an `arm 62 to raise a lpin 63 on said arm out of the path of a loc ing pawl 64 so as to permit the spring 65 to draw the pawl rearward and retract its locking shoulder from engagement with a locking disk on the main operating shaft 47 and most one complete revolution and positively restores the locking pawl to locking position so as to lock the machine at the end of one revolution of the shaft 47 and thus compel a new movement of the clerks lever to unlock the same. A cam disk also fast upon the shaft 47 acts upon an antifriction roller carried by a pivoted arm 71 so as to swing said arm upward when the machine is operated. This arm has an insulating block attached to itsl upper side, which block presses upon a contact strip 72 above which are two other contact strips 73 and 74 suitably insulated from .each other and from the strip 72. When the shaft 47 is turned slightly, the disk 70 causes the arm 71 to press all three contact strips 72, 73 and 74 together. These contact strips have conducting wires attached to them to complete certain circuits as eX- plained later in connection with the diagrammatic views, Figs. 9 and 10. 
 Fig. 1b shows a construction which may be used if desired, to lock the sending machine after one complete operation, by the operation of the aforesaid pawl 48. That is, the pawl may have extending upward from it an arm l arranged to engage a pin 81 formed on a disk 82 fast to the aforesaid shaft 47. When this shaft47 is revolved slightly in the direction shown by the arrow, the pin 81 is moved out of the path of the locking arm 80; but as soon as the receiving machine starts to operate, the pawl 48 is as previously mentioned, thrown upward to lock the setting levers of the sending machine, and this also brings the arm 80 into the path of the pin 81 so as to lock the shaft 47 until the pawl 48 has dropped, which occurs at the completion of the operation of the distant receiving machine as will be described. 
In addition to the ordinary amount setting levers 20 and the clerks setting lever, 
there is also provided a special transaction lever which is attached to a special transaction rack 90 shown in Fig. 1a. On the side of this rack 90 is an insulated roller 91. Below this roller there extends a metal strip 92 to the other end of which is attached an electric wire forming part of a certain circuit to be described later. Above this strip '92 is a shorter strip 93 and below is still another strip 94. Normally the spring strip 92 is in contact with the upper strip 93 so as to complete an electric circuit through such mechanisms in the receiving machine as will cause a cash counter or counters in said machine to be operated. When however the rack 90 is lowered, the roller 91 presses upon the strip 92 and carries the same away from the strip`93 and into contact with .the strip 94 thereby closing such circuit as will cause the operation of a special charge counter in the receiving machine. That is, this special transaction -setting element has two positions, in one of which corresponding to the upper position of the rack bar 90, the cash counter or counters of the receiving machine will be operated; and in the other position the charge counter of the receiving machine will be operated. It will be understoodl that. 
this special transaction setting element may be arranged to control other circuits so as to cause the operation of any desired counters individually at the receiving machine or any combination of such counters. 
 The receiving machinewill now be described. .This machine is shown in crosssection in Fig. 2 and has mounted in suitable transverse guide and supportingfbars, a series of horizontal rack bars 100 corresponding to the rack bars 23 of the sending machine. That is, one rack bar for each of the amount levers of the setting 'machine and one also for the clerks transaction lever and the specialtransaction lever. These rack bars are arranged to be moved mechanically t-o distances exactly corresponding to the differential movements of their corresponding setting levers so as to give an accounting at the receiving machine predetermined by the accounting at the sending machine. Each of the amount rack bars 100 has on its upper surfacefour sets of rack teeth 101 arranged to actuate corresponding independent counters. One of these counters is shown in Fig. 2, it being aunderstood that there are four of these counters in all, the first counter being a cash counter for sending machine No. 1, the second counter being a cash counter for lsending machine No. 2 (where two distant sending machines are both to have their transactions turned in to the common rey 103. This rod is suitably4 insulated from the supporting framework and is electrically connected to the' aforesaid common rod 35 of the corresponding rack bar on the sending machine. The said block 102 has seated in it two spring-pressed plungers 104 and 105 which are spring-pressed apart so that the upper one engages the common rod 103 and the lower one engages one or another of a series of contact disks 106 which are arranged similar to the aforesaid contact. disks 32 of the sending machine and are electrically connected one to another, that is, the zero plate of the sending machine is connected with the zero plate of the receiving receiving machine are setto downwardly extending foot of a locking pawl 112 normally spring-drawn forward by means of a spring 113. The nose of this pawl is arranged to engage a ny one of a series of notches 114 formed 1n a drop segment 115, pivoted upon the transverse shaft 116. On the lower side of each rack 100 is a set of rack teeth 117 engaging the teeth of a segment plate 118 fast to the drop segment 115. A spring 119 is also attached to the drop segment 115 so as normally to pull the segments 115 downward and cause the same to drop to lowest position and thereby move the corresponding rack bar forward. A restoring bar 120 extends under all of the drop segments 115, said bar being hung upon arms 121 fast to the shaft 116 which shaft is a rock shaft and is rocked as will presently be described at each operation of the machine to carry the restoring bar 120 away from the segments 115 to permit the same to drop. The dropping of any segment of course, through its segmental plate 118 also causes the corresponding rack bar 100 to move forward, thereby carrying the contact plunger 105 over the series of contact disks 106. As soon as the plunger reaches a dlsk, the corresponding one of which at the sending machine Ahas its. plunger resting upon the same, this completes an electric circuit through these corresponding contact disks 32 and 106, through the commons 103 and 35, and also through the magnet 110. Thereupon the armature 111 throws the pawl 112 rearward to engage the notch l114 which has been brought opposite the pawl and thus the dropping movement of the segment 115 is stopped. This also results in the checking of the forward movement of the bar 100 so that said bar is given a differential eX- tent of movementexactly corresponding to the differential movements of the setting rack bar at the sending machine. Of course there is one of these rack bars 100 for each of the amount banks and also the clerks bank and the special transaction bank; and in this manner the various racks of the reositions exactl corresponding to the pos1tions of the settlng levers of the sending machine. After the racks have thus been set, the restoring bar 120 is raised thereby restoring all of the racks to normal position, and during this time the particular counters which it is desired to operate are thrown downward into mesh with their rack teeth .101 so as to be operated upon the r'toring movement of the rack bars. The method of rocking the restoring rod 120 as above described is shown in Fig. 3. The main. revolution shaft 125 of the receiving machine is connected to the electric driving motor so that when the current is established through said motor, said shaft 125 will be turned .to effect the operationvof the receiving machine. This shaft 125 has mounted upon it a gear wheel 126 meshing with a gear wheell 127 mounted upon a shaft 128. This shaft 128 carries a dlsk formed with a cam groove 129 into which projectsa roller 130 formed on a segment rack 131 which meshes with a rack 132, fast upon the aforesaid rock shaft 116. The shape of the cam groove 129 is such that upon the operation of the gear wheels in the direction shown by the arrows, the shaft 116 will rst be rocked downward to permit the segments 115 to drop as above described, and then later be rocked back again to restore the segments. The method of rocking in the counters will now be described. As shown in Figs. 2 and 4 the counter wheels 140 are mounted in a frame pivoted upon a transverse shaft 141, which frame has downwardly extending therefrom an arm4142. Pivoted upon the lower end of this arm is a pawl 143 which is held latched in the position shown in Fig. 4, by a trip pawl 144, having a shoulder upon which a lug 145 of the pawl 143 rests. An electromagnet 146 when energized draws the horizontal arm of its bell crank armature 147 upward thereby throwing the vertical arm rearward. This arm bears against a roller 148 on the side of the latch pawl 144 and thus permits the pawl 143 to spring downward to carry its foot into the path of a lug 149 projecting upward from a horizontal counter rocking bar 150. As shown in Fig. 2 this bar is reciprocated at each operation ofthe machine by means of an arm 151, the lower end of which .arm carries the roller 152 playing in a cam groove 153 formed in a disk fast upon the revolution shaft 125 so that as said shaft revolves the bar 150 is thrown forward after the registering racks have been set, and then subsequently retracted rearward after the racks have been restored to normal position, the racks being restored while the counters are in mesh with their respective racks. The movement of the bar 150 throws in whichever counter has had its pawl 143 tripped by the operation of its corresponding electromagnet asl just above described; that is, the lug 149 strikes the foot of the dis laced pawl 143" and by forcing forward the arm 142, rocks the counter 140 downward to carry its pinion into mesh'with the rackteeth 101. When the bar 150 is restored to normal rearward position, the pin 154 thereon strikes the lower end of the rocker arm 142 and positively throws the counter upward again out of mesh with the rack teeth. In order to recock the trip pawl 143, the aforesaid shaft 141 is given a complete revolution at each operation of the' machine, and this shaft carries' a cam 155 ','which strikes a nose at the upper end 141 constitutes in this particular case a. 
with a gear .gear 16 0 during only one transfer shaft toeifect the transfers in the counter wheels 'when the transfer pawls of the ,counters have been tripped, it being understood thatlany'ordinary form of counter A mechanism 'with transfer devices therefor maybe used, the transfer taking place after the registration by the racks. The aforesaid 'gear wheel 126 (see Fig. 3) meshes 160. ,It is desired to revolve the portion of the revolution o'f the gear Whee 126, and for this purpose the gear wheel 126 is made 1n the :form shown` in Fig. 3, ,bein y widened over a certain extent of its perip er as at 161, and being cut away -asat 162. T e gear Wheel: 160 is 'in alinement with the cutaway portion 162 'and the widenedportion 161, while the aforesaid gear wheel 127 is in alinement with the left-hand portion ofthe geai-wheel 126 so as ,continually .'to be. in mesh therewith, whereas thelgear wheel160 is turned only when the -widened'teth 161 comes'in'tocontact with the same. The ar wheel 160'is fornied with two locking sur aces 163 which` coperate with a ,locking disk 164 formed on the side of the gear wheel 126. This locking disk 164 is cut away where the teeth 161 are widened to permit-the ,turning of the wheel 160, and at other times locks the wheel 160 from movement. With one revolution of the gear 126, the gear 160 is given a h alf revolution, and this through a pinion 165 transmits a complete revolution to a gear wheel 166 fast on one end of the aforesaid transfer shaft 141. It will be understood that there is one of these counters for each of the four sets lof racks 101,`and in order to transmit one complete revolution to the transfer shaftfor each counter, the 
`beveled' gearA arrangement ,is' provided (s hownin Fig. 6). On the end of the shaft 141 above described, is a beveled gear 17()V meshing with albeveled gear 171 fast on the shaft 172, and by means of similar beveled gears one complete revolution is transmitted ,to the other transfer shafts 173. As vabove stated, this particular re' ceiving machine is arranged to have four counters, the first one being the'cash counter l for sending machine No. 1, the second one being the -cash counter for sending machine No. 2, the third the grand total cash counter for both sending machines,'and fourth -the grand total charge counter for both sending machines. Whenever any one of the mags nets 146 is energized as above described, this Y causes the corresponding counter4 to be rocked into mesh' wi'th its rack to be operated to an amount corresponding to the (see Fi .2) 
of nested yokes 183 (see connected to type segments 184. Of course Qthere are as many counter operating racks 100 carrying teeth, 101 .as it is deslredto @have banks of amount vaLues andthere. is `also a corresponding rack for-the clerks bank without any counter operating rack teeth 101, and,v also a special, transaction `by a spring 193.` `downward' fro values. set .upI on ,the sending machine. The exact arrangement :of thecircuits for energizing Ythese, magnets 146` will .be described presently .in connection with the diagrammatic views of the circuits but it may be stated herethat when sending machine No. 1 is operated for .a cash sale, the magnet 146 for cash counter No. y1 and also for the grand total counter are energized sg as to throw both counters into operation. When sending machine No.2 is operated for a .cash transaction, the magnet of cash counter No. 2 and also the same and total counter .are 
energized to throw t ese two counters into operation; and when a charge transaction 1s .made on elther sendlng machlne No. 1 or No. 2, ,the magnet for. this grand. totall charge counter is energizedso as.to throw. 
that counter alone into operation. The printing mechanism for this receiving machine will now be described. Each ofl the aforesaid segment racks 118. meshes w-ith a correspondin A rack18 att-ached either to a transverse sha 181 or to nested sleeves 182 which, by means Figs. 7 and 8) are rack without any .counter operating rack teeth, and 4these amount, clerk and special transaction racks. all are connected to, cor,- responding type segments 184 so as to print 'a complete record of each transaction. The 
detail strip paper 185 is fed from a storage roller 1,86, and' over suitable guide rollers `to a windingroller 187. The paper is fedforward the necessary step at each operation of the machine by means of the pawl 188 mounted upon an arm having a segment 189 meshing with. the corresponding segment fon. the aforesaid rock shaft 116. An impression .is taken upon the paper by means of striking an ink ribbonagalnstthe same so that the impact, ofthe ribbon against the paper and its underlying type carriers, will cause .an impression to be left .upon the upper surface of the paper. This i'nk ribbon 190 is carried upon a rocking frame. 191' pivoted,at;192 and spring-pressed downward An arm .194 extending the rock frame carries a roller. 'acted on y a cam v195 carried by the aforesaid .shaft- 1`25. Upon the revolution, 
 of the shaft 125, when the cutaway portion of the cam 19,5 is reached, the frame 191 is rocked .downward under its spring tension and the forward platen'roller 196 over which `the ink ribbon is led, strikes the paper and leaves an impression thereon from the par ticular underlying type which have been set I are connected. `A tension roller 19 u pivoted at 198 to the frame -191 1sv 'upfupon vthe settingmovements of the` vathe side frame of the machine so as to feed and at. its lower end carrying an insulated' the ink ribbonlwhen the ink ribbon frame rocks'back again to normal position. The backward rotation of the ratchet wheel 201 is prevented by means of a retaining pawl 203. 
 The method o f unlocking and starting the receiving machine from any one of the sending machines will now bedescribed. 
 vSituated in proximity to the aforesaid main driving shaft 125 is an electromagnet 210 (see Fig. 8) thev armature 211 of which is attached to an arm 212 pivoted to the side frame of the machine. 'On the outer end of this arm is a pin 213 arranged to strike a wiper pawl 214 pivotedupon the side of an. 
arm 215 hanging loosely upon the shaft 125 roller 216 bearing against a contact spring 217 'adjacent to whlch is another contactstrip 218. The a`rm 215 also carries a pin 220 normally engaging a notch formed in 4 tion formed on-a locln'ng dis the lower end of la locking arm 221, the shape of which is shown in detail in Fig. 5. Thls locking arm is formed with a locking notch 222 engaging a corres onding projec- 223 ast upon the revolution shaft 125. A spring 224 normally4 draws the locking arm 221 downward, and a spring 225 normallydrawsthe armature 211 upward. When the magnet 210 is ener ized and its armature vdrawn down'-v war the pin 213 acts against the pawl 214 to swing the arm 215 to cause the roller 216 to force together the two contact strips 217 and 218. This effects the closing of the circuit through wires 2171 and 2181 and the electric motor to start the receivin machine in the mannerto be present y described. This swinging of the arm 215- also withdraws the -pin 220 from engagement with the locking arm 221 and permits its spring 224 to pull the arm downward so as to withdraw the shoulder 222 from engagement with the locking disk 223 andv thus the receiving machine is unlocked preparatory to its operation by an electric motor, which motor is suitably connected to the driving Y shaft 125 by means of a magnetic clutch. 
y displaced to the right, thereby continuously maintainingthe contact pieces 217 and 218 together, until the revolution shaft 125 has almost completed its revolution whereupon a nose 226 on the aforesaid disk 223 str1kes the projection 227 on the locking arm 221 and positively restores the locking arm to normal upper position. and thus permits the breaking of the contact at the terminals 217 and 218. This results' in the driving motor circuit being held closed until the motor has practically completed its work, and the closlng of this circuit also effects the' control of certain other circuitsfjas will presently'be described. The arm 215 being thus mechanically held to the right to close the motor circuit asabove described, the magnet 210 may now at any time be denergized so as to permit its armature 211 to return to normal upper position which of course usually occurs before the arm 215 swings backto nor-- It has been seen above that the series of' contact disks 106 (See Fig. 2) serve to make live contactl points to determine the stopping positions of the registering racks. When these racks are subsequently restored to normal osition, if this contact point were still a live contact, the breaking of the current therethrough would cause sparking to take lace vupon these contact disks which would lnjure the same after continuous use. Therelfore a 'separate switch is provided for' the commons of the receiving machine, that is, 
 a switch to make' and break the circuits through. the commonrods 103 and the ,contact disks 106, independently of the breaking of the circuit 4at said disks. This switch comprises a contact strip'230 (see Fig. 2) over which lies a secondv contact strip 231. This switch is closed by means of an arm 232 .pivoted at one end to the framework of the machine and' at its outer end carrying a roller acted upon by a cam disk 233 fast upon the revolution shaft 128. The exact position lof this switch in the circuits will be explained more definitely presently with reference to the diagrammatic views, but it may be stated now that the switch stands normally closed as shown in' Fig. 2 and upon the operation of the machine, after the drop segments' 115 have dropped, vthe cam 233 then reaches such position that the switch arm 232 is free to spring upward thus separating the contact strips 230 and 231 and thereby breaking the` circuit through the lcommons of the receiving machine and their respective contact disks, so that whatever sparking takes places occurs at this switch, the switch opening just prior to the restoration of the racks to normal position. It has also been seen. that the counters are tripped electricallyto be thrown into operation, this. 
 and thus effect the throwing in o tripping bein controlled by the magnets 146 as above escribed (see Fig. 2). If the magnet 146 is maintained energized too long, this will hold the latch pawl 144 displaced even after the transfer -shaft 141 has been rotated far enough to effect the recocking of the trip pawl 143. To avoid this diiiiculty, and to denergize the counter magnets 146 in time to'permit the tripping pawls 143 to be properly restored to latching position, a switch is provided for these counter'magnet circuits, which switch may for convenience be referred to as vthe counter switch and whose position will be. explained more definitely in connection with the explanation of the various circuits. The mechanical con-v struction of this switch is shown in Fig. 2, comprising an'under contact y an upper contactst'rip 241. Albove these there rests a switchloperating arm 242-piv-l oted at one end to the framework of the machine and at its outer end carrying an. anti-friction roller en aged by a 'cam 243 fast upon the aforesai lrevolution shaft 125. This switch normally stands open, the normal position of the cam 243being such as to permit the arm 242 t'ofremain in its uppermost position under'f-s'pring tension, thus permitting the separationAA of the contact strips 240 `and 241. Upon the operation of. the machine however, the cam 243 -will act upon the arm 242 to closethe circuit between the strips 240 andc241 and duringthe time that it is closed in this manner, the prpper countermagnets -146 are energized to e ect the tripping ofthe corresponding pawls 143 the proper counter or counters. As soon as su h tripping has been effected the switch m y now ofcourse be open, so that the disl; 243 is cut away to permit the arm 242 to returnto normal position and thus cause the separation of vthe contact strips 240 and '241, which strips then remain separated until the next succeeding operation of the machine. y 
 -Having now described the main mechanicalfeatures comprising the sending andreceiving machines, the various arrangements of electric circuits and relay devices for controlling the manipulation of the machine will now be described with special reference to the diagrammatic Views Figs. 9 and v10. These two views in reality constitute y together one entire View of the various cir-v cuits and contrivances, but-'have been separated in this manner to permit enlargement of the views. Fig. 9 represents sending machine No. 1 and'sending machine No. 2-with the electrical connections therewith, and Fig. lOwrepresents the common receiving machine and electrical connections, and the various lead wires extending to the right in Fig. 9 representing respectively the same lead wires I which extend to the left in Fig. 10, said lead strip 240 and wires being properly connected each to nach. The combining of Figs 9 and 10 in this mann er will give the proper arrangements of the circuits. 
 The main source of electric energy for supplying current to the various circuits extending etween the two sets of the machines is supplied from a battery or generator 300 (see Fig. 10), and the lead wires extending from this generator are indicated in heavy'lines in both Figs. 9 and 10, the positive wire or main 301 being indicated at various points by theplus sign and the negattive wire or main 302 being indicated by the minus sign. In Fig. 9, the two sending machines are both represented diagrammatically, being separated by the dot and dash line 303, the lower machine being sending `machine No. 1 and the upper machine sendin machine No. 2. Assuming 4that ma'- chlne No. lis to be operated, its setting levers are first adjusted to the desired values. This adjusts the sliding contact so as to bridge across a connection between the common 35 and one of the contact\disks 32. Fig. 9 shows one set of disks and a common for only one bank, the others being a repetition of this arrangement. After the setting of thelevers, the crank handle of the sending machine No. 1 is turned to operate the machine. connection with Fig. 1, effects the closing together of the three lcontact strips 72, 7 3 and 74. Strip 74 (as shown in Fig. 9) is connected to the positive main 301. The terminal 73 is connected tothe wire E and the terminal 72 to a wire F. The bringing together ofthe strips 72, 73 and 74 therefore results in connecting the same to the positive main.- Following up first the wire F, it will be seen that this wire in Fig. 10 leads tothe starting coil of the magnet 210 of the receiving machine and thence to the negative main 302. The energizing of this magnet 210 :1s-above explained in connection with Fig. 8, results in the closing of the contact between the strips 217 and 218, and these strips are then mechanically held together by the locking arm 221 until the motor of the receiving machine has almost completed its revolution. The closing of the contact between strips 217 and 218 closes the circuit from the battery 310 through the This as above described in vdrivinlfgg."motor 311 which is attached -to the tablishes a connection between the positive main 301 and certain locking relays for the purpose of maintaining a closed circuit through certain locking devices in the sending machines independently of the breakin of the main contact at the sending machlnes, as will presently be described. Following out now the .wire E which was also connected to the positive main by the closing of the three-point starting switch of machine No. 1, it will be seen that in Fig. 10 this wire E extends tov a locking relay No. 1, and through its magnetic coil 320l to the negative main v3 02. The movement of the armature 321 forces together two pairs of contact strips 322 323 324 and 325,st rips 323 and 324 beingl separated by' insulation. 322 is connected to said wire E and 323 is connected by wire 3230 tothe aforesaid strip 316 of the controlling locking relay so that it is thereby connected through the strip 315 with the positive main 301. Since the strips 315 and 316 of the controlling locking relay are held together by the operation vof the coil 313, which coil is energized as soon as the receiving machine motor starts and remains energized until the receiving .machine has completed its operation,the result is that this controlling lockin relay serves to establish the circuit throug the coil 320 of 'the locking relay No. 1 independently of the breaking of the circuit by the completion of the operation of sending machine No. 1 andthe consequent separat1on of the .strips 72, 73 and 74. That is, the current now flows from the positive main 301 through the strips 315 and 316, wire 3230, through the strip 323, then to strip 322 and then through the relay coil 320 back to the negative main, thus maintaining the coil 320 energized and the armature 321 in position to hold together the four overlying strips. The joining of strips 324 and 325 in this manner results in the establishment of the circuit through the commons, the slidin contact, and the series of contact disks o sending machine No. 1. Strip 325 is connected to the negative main 302, While strip 324 is connected throu h the wire A to a locking coil 330 of sending machine No. 2. This locking coil is wound on the same core with another lookin coil l331 so that either coil when -energize will operate an armature 332 which-throws upward the pawl.333. This closes a contact between two terminals 334 and A335 for the purpose presently shown. After going through the lockin coil 330, the current extends through a lea wire 336 to an eight-point relay coil 337, then by wire 3381 to a locking coil 338 and back by wire 3382 top the positive main 301, thus completing the circuit. This locking coil 338 1s on the same core with another locking coil 339 which is connected to a wire D so that when either coil is energized it will operate. the armature 50, which larmature -as already described with reference to Fig. 1 is situated below the pawl 48,- and when operated raises said pawl to lock the rock frame 42 of sendin machine No. 1 so that the setting levers o this machine cannot now be moved so long as this locking relay coil is energized. If the device shown in Fig. 1b is also used, this also results in the locking of the operating shaft of machine No. 1 at the end of one complete revolution, so that said machine cannot again be operated untiL'the locking coil 338 is dcenergized which occurs after the receivingmachine has completed its operation. The lifting of the awl 48 also closes together two contact strips 340 and 341. 340 is connected to the positive main and 341 is connected through an indicator light 342 to the negative main, this v'indicator lightl being suitably mounted anywhere on the sending machine so that when it .is lighted in this manner it will indicate to the operator that the machine is locked by reason of the receiving machine not having completed its operation. The above describedarmature 332 and -.pawl 333 for machine No. 2 are exactly similar to the armature 50 and pawl 48,.-for machine No. 1 and the'locking connections are the same for machine No. 2 as for machine No. 1 so that when this locking coil 330 is energized as above eX lained,4 this results in the locking of all o the levers of machine No. 2 and also in the locking of the operating shaft of machine No. 
..2 so that neither the levers nor said shaft may be operated until the receiving machine has completedits operation. The aforesaid strips 334 and 335- also close the circuit through a lamp 343' similarly arranged to the lamp 342 so that when lighted this. lamp will indlcate that another machine is in use, namely: machine No. 1 and that the receiving machine has not completed itsoperatlon. v f 
 The above described energizing of the eight-point relay coil 337 causes the operation of its armature 35.0 which thereupon forcestogether the eight contact strips 351. The lowermost of these strips is connected to the positive main 301, and the up ermost strip is 4connected by wire 352 to t e strip 92 of the special transaction switch shown in Fig. 1; while the other intervening strips 351 are connected by wires 3510 to the other commons of the other amount banks and the clerks bank, only one common of each sending machine being shown herein. In this manner, the commons of all the banks of sending machine No. 1 including the common of the special transaction element are connected to the positive one'oftliezwires 353, which wires `extendto their 'correspondingcontact disk 106 of the receivingma'chine.. When the receiving-machine racks are operated and reach thecon-l v tact disk 106l correspcndigtc the live contact disk 32, thisbri'dgesa'cross the circuit between this disk'106' and the common 103 and lthereby, completes the circuitby wire 1030 through the stop magnetcoil 110, wire 1100 back to the negativeimain through the switchterminals 230 ai1d231, and this o erates the locking pawlp112tofstop and ock of' the receiving machine are restored to nor-v malv position,.so'that no sparking will take place u on the series of contact .disks 106. The swltch contacts 230 vand231 are then closedfat the end of .theoperation lof the receiving machine as .previously described. .l The control of the counters at the receivj I l s1tion, and the'. current -flows th-rough the ingjmachine by the 'specialtransacti'on elementbf the sending' machine will' now vbe .l 
' contact out; lofthe fourth contact disk 362 described. 
 The'common. strip 92-of'tlie special trans- 'action contact dey'iee' is, asiaboye stated, con. necte'd tothe wire.1 352. 'The' .upper contact strip 93 is connected to 'wire 360, andthe lower strip 94 to wire 361. as shown` 1n Fig. -10 are connected respectively to the thirdaand fourth contact disks 362 of a series of four'special transaction contact disks in the receivln 'machine' '363 is the'comm'on for this set o four dsklsL and is connected througl'ra coil of a sto magnet for the dropfsegmentof the s cia transacf tion r'ackof'this machine. n the normal position oflthe'jspecial transaction lever' for sending machine No.1, the contact stri '92 rests .against stri l 93'l thereby ostablis in' the-circuit throug tle Wire 360 to the thir contact disk 362. so that the special transaction rack fwill` be moved threefuni'ts to set up the sl ecial transaction printin wheel to print ash No. 1 orsuitablefab revatlc'n therefor. It will be* seen that' the 'same switch 230 and 231' which cuts off the current from the commons'103; also serves to cut oi the current from the.: common 363A fotthe specialwtransaction bank so as `in a similar -man`ner.t prevent sparking at the special transaction contact disks. 
other circuit leading from the negative main through themagnet coil 146 of cash counter N651 andffalso through a slmilarlmagnet'ic These wires l i wire 3,61 isconniected to wire'z3'66 which goes clfor the .g1-and total cashcounter and' their tothe 'positive-main. 301.. Itwill be remembered that the energizing-of anycoil 146 causes the ltripping .oftlie latchA pawl 144 to throw in the corresponda 'counter. Therefore -the flowing 'of 'the current th'roilgh the wire;364 causesftlie'throwing' in offc'ash l counter No# 1 andthe grand totalA cashcoun# ter 1n 'the receiving? machine Similarly throughithecoil 367 .and then to the negative ijmain and-.thereby .operates the arma- '.ture 3670.of 'tl1`is coilrto close together the tw\o;overlyin cntact strips 3671 and 3672 and thus esta Iish a circuit extending from the` negative main 302 'through the grand total .credit orwcliarge counter magnet coil 'and 4back to the positive main-so .as to cause s'aidgrand total credit counter'to be opere credit counter thusI occurs when theA special transaction lever of -sending. machine No. 1 is moved tocar-ry 'theroller 91 again'st' the I common strip l ofthespeci'al-'transaction series of contact disks in the' receiving machine, and this vwill causethe special transaction rack to be ated.` This throwing in of the grand ftotal moved`four degrees-to print Charge No." 
1 or sitable'abbreviation thereof. 
 Without :any further explanation it will 5 that for sendi be readily understood x the. 'Fdiagrams y machine No. 2, 'the amount--v 'banks have their various contact' 'disks icon# ,nected tol the'proper and :correspondingsame .racks in the receiiiin'g machine'as are wires 353 so as to control th'e setting of vthe controlled by -the .sending .'machi'ne'No. 1'. l 
 Likewise the sending machine"No.-:2.has .af specialtransaction contact device similarztor' @the strips'92,.93, and' 94 already described print .either" Cash No.' 2 or Charge No. 2, and similarly the; special transaction element. 'of 'this sending -'inachine';No. 42 lwhen se't to .cash position,I causes 'cash counter; 
' No. 2 and the grand'total cash counter to be thrown into. operation, while when Vsetv to charge position, only the grand `total chargey counter'zwill'be operated. This will readily be seen from the .reading of the diagrams. 
The function of the counter-switch which has'. already been described withy reference l izao siblelto establish the' circuit between. the 
' tion, of course the contact strips 72, 73 and' switch contacts 230 .and231 74-are separated, but such separation no longer has any effect upon the operation 'of the receiving machine or upon`the`locking devices for the sending machines Nos. -1 and 2, because the starting of the fcurrent through the receiving machine motor 311 has also operated the controlling-locking relay having the'coil 313 as above desc'rlbed. This controlling locking relay therefore establishes the variouscircuits between the two sending machines and the receiving,v machine independently of the establishment of the circuit at the contact strips 72, 73 and 74. .Y The circuit Afor setting the rack bars diierentially is automaticall broken by the ing machine completesi-ts operation, and the 4circuit for the controlof .the counters of the receiving lmachine is also automatically broken by the operation'of the switch 240 and 241 before the receivingmachine completes its operation, all asiahbve described. 
But the controlling lockingfrslay still maintains the circuit through tli'e locking coils 330 and 338 for both machines Nos. 1 and 2 so that said machines have both .their setting. 
levers and their' 'o erating shafts ermanently locked until t e receiving machine has fully completed its operation, whereuponthe armature 211 is automatically restored to normal position and the contact strips 217 and 218 separated so as to break the current both through the driving motor and through' the controllin locking relay and thus unlock both sending machines. -4 
 It will be understood from a consideration of the diagrams that when sendin machine No. 2 is operated, the operation o the various circuits and devices will be similar to that already described for machine No. 1,v 
the proper amount being registered and recorded at the receiving machine, and the automatic closing of the circuit through the aforesaid controlling `locking relay coil 313 1 this timeoperates the locking devices for the sending machines by means of the locking relay No. 2 shown in Eig. 10.' Wires B and C for machine No. 2 correspond to wires E and F-fer machine No. 1, wire B acting to start the driving motor 311 and wire C leading to locking relay No. 2. Wire D for machine No. 2 corresponds to wire A for machine No. 
efore the sendbination .with a 4 .1, wird D leading from lookin relay No.. 2 
through the' locking coils 339 o machine No. 
 1 and through locking coils 331 of machine' No.2 and then through the ,eight-point' relay I coil for machine No. 2 back to the positive ,main It is to be understood that this arrangement of locking devices` and circuits may readily be extended to any number. of sending machines all turning in their ac- "countings to one and the same receiving machine, with the results above indicated in connection with the use of these two sending machines. f 
 The abovey described system yis well adapted for department stores, in which use there would be placed in each department and at the central Vor receiving station would be located a receiving machine having reg-- istering devices, such as totalizers, corresponding in number to the departments, a grand totalizer upon which is accumulated of the store one of the sending machines, l 
the total of all of the departmental totalizers, 
and also a credit totalizer upon which is ventered the credittransactions occurring in. `allthe departments of the store. 
 .-While the `form of mechanism herein shown and described is admirably adapted to" full the objects primarily stated, it is to be understood that-it is not intended to conne the. invention to the one form of enibodiment herein shown and described but that it is susceptible of embodiment in vari.-- ous forms all coming within the scope 'of the claims which follow. 
lWhat is claimed is as follows '1. In a machine-of the class described, the I combination with a plurality of independent controlling mechanisms each including a differentially movable element,` ofa distant controlled enumeratin means also including a diiferentially movab e element, circuit connections from all said controlling mechanisms to said controlled means for each position of said movable elements, and devices in said controlled-means for moving the dilerential element thereof to extentsdetermined by the circuit connection which is employed. 2. In an account-ing mechanism the combination with a plurality of differentially adjustable independent controllin means, of a distant enumeratingpmeans, an operating means and connections between the controlling and enumerating means adaptedV to cause each operation of the latter in correspondence with an operation of any of the former. 
3. In an accounting mechanism, the comof all of the controlling means and the\differentially movable devlces, of a distant regferential elements of the registering device 'for causing a movement of the elements of the latter device roportionately to the movement of the di erential devices of any of the controlling means. 
 4. In an accounting mechanism the combination with a plurality of independent controlling devices, of a receiving device for all of said controlling devices, connections between said controlling and receiving Ydevices for operating the latter` through an operation of the former, and means at all the controllin devices for indicating that the receiving evice is being operated. 
 5. In an accounting mechanism, the combination with a controllingdevice having a plurality of diiferential adjustable elements, of a distant controlled device having a plurality of differentially movable enumerating members, means for controlling the enumerating members of the control ed device by the adjustable elements ofthe controlling device, and means for indicatin at the controlling device that the control ed device is operating. 
 6. In an accounting mechanism, vthe conibination with a controlling device having a plurality of diierentiall. adjustable elements, of a distant contro led device having a pluralityof differentially movable enumerating members, means for controlling the enumeratin members 'of the controlled device by the a justable elements of the controlling device, and means at the controlling' device for indicating when the controlled device ceases operating. 
 7 In a cash register, the combination with a sendin machine having a plurality of differentially adjustable setting elements, a contact piecel movable in correspondence with each setting element, and a series of contacts for each movable contact,0f a receiving machine comprising a series of differentially movable controlling elements having rack teeth, a contactzmovable with each element, a series of contacts for each movable contact, a counter movable into and out of mesh with said rack teeth, circuits including the respective series of contact devices -and having a commonv return, and a magnet lin said common ret-urn part of the circuit. 8. In a cash register, the combination with a plurality of counters, of operating devices common to the same and meansfor producing a differential motion of the operating deviceslcomprising a contact movable with said devices, a plurality of stationary contacts with which the movable Contact is adapted to engage, circuits for said contacts, a magnet in said circuits, means controlled by said magnet for locking the operating devices in set position, and means for engaging any counter with the operating devices. 
holding pawl, a magnet operating said hold ing pawl, a movab e bar, and a pawl connected to said counter and normally held by said holding pawl, but adapted whenfreleased to be ope-rated by said bar. 
. 10. In an electrical'cash register, the combination with a sending instrument having movable Setting elements and an operating mechanism of a receiving instrument having movable parts, and means for preventing movement o the setting elements while the 'receiving instrument is operating said means includin a circuit and a magnet in said circuit, an means for maintaining said circuit i through said magnet until said receiving instrument completes its operation. 
11. In a cash i, register, the combination with a plurality yof counters each having a plurality of movable elements, of operating devices common thereto, and means for selecting a counter foroperation, comprising a circuit, a relay therein, a local circuit controlled by the relay and a magnet in said local circuit.l 
 12.. In a cash register, the combination with a plurality of dilerentially adjustable operating elements, of accounting devices operated by the same, a frame` in which -said devices are mounted, and means for rocking the frame comprising a bar carried by the' frame, a pawl on said bar and having 'a.lug, a slidable part having a projection and means movin the pawl into and out o f 4contact with sai projection. 
 13. In a cash register, the combination with a differentially movable element and a counter operated thereby, of am normally locked electric motor for moving said element, a circuit for said motor including contacts, a controlling magnet and means operated thereby for unlocking said motor and closing said contacts. 
 14. In a cash register the combination with a differentially movable element and a counter operated thereby, of a normally locked electric motor for movin tsaid element, a circuit for said motor inc uding contacts, a controlling magnet, means operated by said magnet for closing and locking said cont-acts, and means operated by the motor for positively returning said locking device to normal position and unlocking said contacts. 
15. .In a cash register, the combination with a sending instrument having a differentially movable element and means for locking same in any position to which it has been moved vof a receiving instrument having an operating mechanism, means at the sending instrument for controlling the operation of the receiving instrument and means at thereceivin iinstrumentv controlled .by the 'operating .mec anism thcreoffor enabling and disabling the said locking means. 
16. In a machine of the class described, 
" 5 the combination .with a receiving instrument havin accounting devices, of a .plurality of contrling mechanisms for transmitting to saidreceiving-instrument transactions to be accounted, means in the controlling mecha- '10 nism for varying, as desired the. details of the` transactions transmitted to the receiving instrument, operating connections between all the controlling mechanisms and the re- -ceiving instrument, with provisions whereby adjustment of the remaining controlling mechanisms is prevented during transmissionfrom any one ofthe controlling mechj. 
anisms. Y l 
 17. In a cash register, thev 'combination' with .a receivinginstrument having accountf' ing devices of a pluralityr of controlling mechanisms for said instrument, means whereby an operation of any controlling mechanism'willbe accompanied by a cor- 25 responding operation of the accounting devices and means controlled by the receiving instrument prevent-ing an' operation of the other cont-rolling mechanism while the receivinginstrument is being operated from 80 one controiling mechanism.' 
 18. In a cash register, the combination with a sending instrument having a differentially movable mani ulative element aid means for locking said element, of a receivinginstrume'nt having dierential elements for preserving an entry of each transaction, means for operating the receiving instrument controlled from the ending instrument and means controlled receiving instrument for lockingsaid manipullative element during the complete operation of the receiving instrument. 
19. In a cash register, the combination with a receiving instrument having a plu-l rality of accounting devices and means for operating same, of a plurality of sending instruments having manipulative devices, 
connections for operating the vreceiving instrument in accordance with an operation of any sendin device means at each sending device contro led from the receiving device for prevent-ing operation of the manipulative elements of each sendi device during the operation of the' receiving device and means at each sending device, to indicate that the receiving device is being operated. 
 20. In an accounting mechanism, the combination with' a plurality of controlling means each having a plurality of difieren; tially adjustable devices, of a.v controlled mechanism having a plurality of differentially movable elements, and connections between the differentially adjustable devices of all of the controlling means -an'd the mov-A able elements of the controlled mechanism f of the controlled mechanism. 
carriers and for feeding-said ribbon. 
' the combination with a central receiving may the at the end ofits operation until t ing machine finishes its operation. 
 22. :In'asystemA of the character described, the combination with a central receiving machine havingv differentially movable elenichts, of a plurality of distant sending machines eachJ having differentially adjust-able devices, and electrical connections between the adjust-able devices of all of .the sending machines and the differentially movableelements of the receiving machine for causing movement of the movable elements of the receiving machine Y roportionately to the movement of the a Justable devices of any of the sending machines. y 
23. In a system of the character described, 
 chine, including differentially movable elements, of a plurality of distant sending machines each having differentially movable elements, electrical. connections between the receiving machine land the respective sending machines, and meansffor locking the other sending machines while any one sendingmachine is operating the receiving machine. i. 
 24.' In a system of the characterl described, the combination with a central receiving machine including diierentially movable elements, of apluralit of distant sending machines each having iiil'erentially movable' elements, electrical connections between the receiving machine and the respective sending machines, means for causin a corresponding movement of the di erentially movable elements of the receiving machine when any one sending machine is operated, and means for locking thesendingl machine e receiv- 25. In a system of the character described, the combination with a'- central receiving 120 machine having differentially movable elements, of a plurality of sending machines at a distance and each having differentially movable elements, electrical connections 'be- .tween the receivin machinel and the respective sending machines, means for causing .a corresponding movement of the differentially movable elements of the receiving machine-when any one of the sending machines is operated, and means for indicating at each electromagnet, devices operation and at each machine that the reing said magnet. 
ceivin machine is being operated. 
 26. n a system of the class described, the combination with a plurality of sending machines each having differentially movable controlling elements, of a distant receiving machine having a plurality of controlled enumerating elements, connections between the several sending machines and the receiving machine for controlling the latter by the former, and means at each sending machine but controlled by the receiving machine for locking all said. con- .trolling elements while the receiving machine is operating. 
 27. In a' system of the class described, the combination with a plurality of sending machines each having controlling elements, of a receiving machine having differentially movable enumerating elements, connections between all the elements of all the sending machines and the receiving machine elements for controlling the latter by the former, and means at each sending machine but controlled by the receiving machine for locking all said controlling elements while the receiving machine is operating. 
 28. In a system of the class described, the combination with a differentially adjustable controlling device and a distant diii'erentially movable controlled device, of connections between said devices whereby the controlling device determines the operation of the controlled device, and means at the controlling device for indicating that the controlled device is operating. 
 29. In a system of the class described, the combination with a dierentially adjustable controlling device, and a distant differentially movable controlled device, of connections between said devices for determining the movement of the controlled device in` accordance with the adjustment of the controllin device, and indicating means at the control ing device actuated by the movementof the controlled device. 
 30. In a machine of the class described, the combination with a registering vdevice and a rack element for operating it, of a driving motor and an operating bar actuated thereby, a spring normally tending to move said rack element, a projection operable to obstruct said rack element, a magnet for actuating said projection, and contact means controlled by said rack element for energizing said magnet. 
 31. In a machine of the class described, the combination with a registering device and a rack element for operating it, of an operating bar for said rack element, an actuated thereby for causing obstruction of said rack element, a contactdevice moved by said rack element, a. lurality of stationary contacts with all of w ich said first contact device may engage and a circuit fromv said contact and includthe combination with a registering device anda differentially movable device for operatmg 1t, of an electromagnet and devices a2. In a machine of anlass' described, 
actuated thereby for causing obstruction of said differential device, contact means controlled by said diii'erential device for energ'izmg said ma et at any position of said differential devlce, and means for lengaging and disengaging said differential device and said registering device. l 
 33. In a machine of the class described, the combination with printing mechanism including type carriers, of differentially movable elements for variously positioning sald type carriers, an electromagnet and devices actuated thereby for stopping said type carriers in desired differential positions, means for energizing said magnet, a motor for driving said diderential elements, and impression means actuated by said motor. 
 34. In a machine of the class described, the combination with diiferentially movable elements, and accounting devices controlled thereby, of electric circuits including a plurality of contacts for causing obstruction of said differentially movable elements at desired points, ian operating device for said diierential elements, a main contact in said circuits and means controlled by said operating device .for breaking the circuits at said main contact before said plurality of contacts are operated', to avoid sparking. 
 35. In a machine of the class described, the combination with accounting devices, of an electric motorfor operating said devices, a circuit for said motor including a relay magnet, and means controlled by said relay magnet for indicating at a distance whether' or not said motor is operating. 
 36. In a machine of the class described, the combination with an accounting mech` anism and an electric motor for driving the same, of a circuit including said motor and having contact points, an electromagnet and an armature therefor, an arm actuated by said armature and positioned to close said contact points, a locking arm constructed to retain said contact closing arm in operated position, and connections from said driven accounting mechanism for displacing said retaining arm. 
 37. In a machine of the class described, the combination with a controlling mechanism, of a distant controlled enumerating mechanism with connections for controlling the latter by the former, an operating mechanism for said enumerating mechanism, a circuit including a relay closed while said operating mechanism is operating, and indicating means at the controlling mechansm controlled by said relay. 
 38. In a machine lof the class described, the combination with a controlling mechanism and-'a distant enumerating means controlled thereby, of a motor for driving said enumerating means, a circuit for said motor, and an indicating device atsaid controlling I nechanism with connections for actuating said indicating device while said motor circuit is effective. Y 
 3 9. Ina machine of the class described, the combination with a controlling mecha` nism and a distant enumerating mechanism controlled thereby, of a relay magnet with connections for energizing it while the enumerating means is operating, and an indi- .cator at the distant controlling mechanism, 
` controlled by 4said relay magnet. 
 40'. In a machine of the class described, the combination with an enumerating means, of a plurality of separated and independent l controlling mechanisms therefor, connections lfor transmitting details of transactions entered on any of the controlling mechanisms to the enumerating means, diierential mechanism in each controlling mechanism for varying as desired the transaction details transmitted at any operation, and meansfor lookin the differential mechanism of the particular controlling mechanism employed, while the enumerating means is operating under control of said particular mechanism. v y 
 41. In a machine of the class described, the combination with a plurality of separated and independent controlling mechanisms, each having differential means for entering therein details of transactions, of an enumerating means, connections between each of said controlling mechanisms and said enumerating means for transmitting to said enumerating means the detailsl of each transaction entered on any of the controllin mechanisms, and devices for locking the di ferential means of the particular controlling mechanism employed, while the enumerating means is operating under control of said particular mechanism. 
 42. The vcombination with a sending machine having a series of contacts, of a receiving machine having a series of corresponding contacts, manually operated switch contacts `for the sending machine,' motor driven switch contacts for the receiving machine, registering mechanism controlled by said motor driven switch contacts, and connectingv means intermediate corresponding contact pieces in the sending and recelving machine. 
 43. The 'combination with a sending machine, including a series of contact pieces, of switch contacts for establishing contact with the contact pieces,A a receiving machine having contact pieces, switch `contacts in said machine for establishing contact with thesev latter contact pieces, connections beunder control of said 48. Inamachine oft e class described, the 
tween the corres onding contact pieces,l a counter controlle b the receiving machine switch contacts, an means for preventing any movement of the sending machine switch contacts during the operation of the receiving machine. 
 44. The combination' with a sending machine, including. a series -of contact pieces, and movable switch contacts for said contact pieces, of a receiving machine having a series of corresponding contact pieces, elec.- trically connected with the contact pieces of the sending machine, switch contacts for the receiving machine, and accounting mechanism controlled by the switch contacts of the receiving machine, driving mechanism for the switch contacts of the receiving machine, and a lock for the switch contacts of the sending machine, controlled by the driving mechanism of the receiving 'machine. 
 45. The combination with a sending machine, of'a receiving machine, a motor and a circuit therefor for operating the receiving machine, means for closing the circuit to the motor from the sending machine, means for holding the circuit closeduntil the receiving machine has made a complete operation, and means for preventing'a second operation of the sendin .machine before the previous operation of t e receiving machine has been completed. 
46. The combination with a send' ma- -chine, including a series of setting evers and a series of contacts for each lever, of a receiving machine having a series of contacts connected to the corresponding contacts at the sending machine, accounting mechanism in the receiving machine, means controlledby the contacts for operating the accounting mechanism, latches for the setting levers of the sending machine, and electrically controlled operating means for said latches for preventing movement of the setting levers while the receiving machine is operating. 
 47. In a machine of the class described, the combination with a. plurality of controlling mechanisms, each including differentially movable elements, a distant enumerat- 1n v means, also having differentially movab e elements, connections from the difierential elements of all the controlling mechanisms to the Qdifferential elements of the enumerating means whereby the latter may be controlled b the former, and means for locking the di erential elements of the particular controlling mechanism employed, -While the enumerating means is operating articular mechanism. 
combination with a plurality ofl controlli mechanisms, each including differentially movable elements, of a distant enumerating means also-including differentially movable