Combined typewriting and computing machine 
US-1493867-A
nan
1924-05-13
https://patents.google.com/patent/US1493867A/en
May 13, 1924. 
H. L. PITMA'N COMBINED TYPEWRITING AND COMPUTING MACHINE Filed Jan. 5, 5 Sheets-Sheet 1 May 13, 1924. 1,493,867 
" H. L. PlTMAN COMBINED TYPEWRITING AND COMPUTING MACHINE Filed Jan. 5, 1921 5 Sheets-Sheet 2 May 13 1924. 
- H. L. PITMAN COMBINED TYPEWRITING AND COMPUTING MACHINE NNU? .1 
Filed Jan. 5, 1921 May 13, 1924. 
H.QL. PlTMAN COMBINED TYPEWRITING AND COMPUTING MACHINE 5 Sheets-Sheet 4 Filed Jan. 5, 192} 5mg a mutb MNQ May 13, 1924. 
H. L. F ITMAN COMBINED TYPEWRITING AND COMPUTING MACHINE Filed Jan. 5, 1921 5 Sheets-Sheet 5 M1 @U .w 
Patented May 13, 1924. 
UNITED STATES 1,493,867 PATENT OFFICE. 
HENRY L. PITMAN, 0F WESTFIELD, NEW JERSEY, ASSIGN OR TO UNDERWOOD COM- PUTING MACHINE COMPANY, OF NEW YORK, N. Y., A CORPORATION OF NEW YORK. 
COMBINED TYPEWRITING AND COMPUTING MACHINE Application filed January 5, 1921. 
To all whom it may concern: 
 Be it known that I, HENRY L. PITMAN, a citizen of the United States, residing in lVestfield, in the county of Union and State of New Jersey, have invented certain new and useful Improvements in Combined Typewriting and Computing Machines, of which the following is a specification. 
 This invention relates to combined typewriting and computing machines, and especially to the kind known as the Underwood bookkeeping machine shown in the patent to F. A. Hart, No. 1,270,411, dated June 25, 1918, and the patent to O. Minton, No. 1,- 280,065, dated September 24, 1918. 
 In the Underwood bookkeeping machine, the numeral keys are effective through certain linkages, to set up a number by means of indexing pins, prior to running the number into the register or totalizer; a general operator being actuable to engage the set indexing pins to drive the associated computing racks or bars to run the set-up number into the register. Said machine lends itself to addition and subtraction. It is most generally used forcomputation according to the decimal system. Sometimes it is desirable to compute with machines of this type according to the British monetary standard. Heretofore this hasrequired a rather extensive change in construction of the computing mechanism including the computing bars and the pin-setting linkages. 
 A feature of this invention is to reduce to a minimum the mechanical changes required in this type of machine to compute according to the British monetary system. In carrying out the invention, I have confined the changes as far as possible to the computing bars so that the same system of pinsetting linkages may be.used as is used in machines to perform decimal computation. 
 The invention is in the nature of improvements which may be used in connection with mechanism shown in the patent to W. L. Gumpreeht, No. 1,338,012, dated April 27, 1920, in which there is made provision to compute according to the British monetary system. 
The invention further comprises improve-'' Serial No. 435,132. 
In the accompanying drawings, 
 Figure 1 is a sectional side elevation of the machine showing the invention applied thereto. 
 Figure 2 is a top plan view showing the key-operated pin-setting linkages, the computing bars and dial-wheels of a register. 
 Figure 3 is a side view showing the unitsof-shillings computing bar, tens-of-pence bar, units-of-pence bar, pence auxiliarybar, pence complement bar and the pence auxiliary complement bar. The bars are shown separated from each other to expose certain settable devicescarried thereby, and in their normal positions. The bars are also shown in the positions which they normally ocon y relatively to the in-setting linkages. 
 igure 4 is a top p an view of the computing bars shown in Figure 3, and the tensof-shillings computing bar. 
 Figure 5 is a view similar to Figure 3, except that the tens-of-shillings bar is also shown, the settable devices on the various bars being set by the actuation of the subtraction-setting mechanism. 
 Figure 6 is a perspective view showing the pence auxiliary bar, units-of-pence bar and the tens-of-pence bar separated from each other sufficiently to clearly show the settable devices thereon, the parts being in their normal positions. 
 Figure 7 is a side view of the units-ofpence bar, and shows a shiftable interponent or switch of a denomination-selecting connection in eflective relation therewith. 
 Figure 8 is a side view of the pence auxiliary bar, and shows the switch set in effective relation with said bar. 
 Figure 9 is a side view showing the unitsof-pence bar and the tensof-pence bar, the latter having been moved forwardly by the denomination-selecting mechanism. 
 Figure 10 is a view similar to Figure 9, and shows the units-of-pence bar moved forwardly by the denomination-selecting mechanism. 
 Numeral-keys 13 and alphabet-keys 14, when depressed, actuate key-levers 15 and 16, to operate bell-cranks 17 to swing typebars 18 upwardly and rearwardly to print against the front side of a platen 20, rotatably supported on a carriage 21, which travels back and forth on rails 22 and 23 of a main frame 24. The carriage is urged from right to left of the machine by a spring drum 25, connected to the right-hand end of said carriage by a strap 26. The carriage is connected in the usual way with eseapement devices indicated generally at 27. The escapement devices may be actuated through the medium of a universal bar 28. engaged b heels 29 on the various typebars, to e ect letter-feeding movements of the carriage. 
To set up a number which may be later run into dial-wheels 30 of a register, each Since there are nine numeral-keys, there are nine pin-setting bars 38 arranged in the dividually forwardly usual way from front to back of the machine behind each other. When the numeral-keys are operated under ordinary conditions, the pin-setting bars 38 move down- Wardly without any efiect. As the carriage enters the computing zone, however, computing bars 40 of the r ister are moved iny denominational selecting mechanism, hereinafter described, to bring settable indexing devicesor ins 41 into register with the pin-setting ars 38. If a numeral-key is operated while a computing bar is in its selected or pinsetting position, the indexing pin corresponding to the depressed numeral-key is depressed by the pin-setting.,bar 38 associated with the operated numeral-key. The carriage then passes to the next denominational position when the computing bar of nextlower denominational order is moved forwardly, so'that the-indexing pin corresponding in value to' the number typed in said position of the gcarriage may be set. After the number has been set up on the various computing bars, it may be? run into the register by means of'the usual general operator 42. 
- The denominational selecting mechanism for the computing bars 40 may comprise one or more selectors 43 settable on .the 
typewriter carriage 21 to columns where computation is to be performed. The selectors are normally inefi'eotive, and each time the carriage enters a computing zone, one of the selectors 43 rides up on an elon gated roller 44 to bring a tappet 45 on the selector into efi'ective relation with aseries of jacks 46, there being one jack for, 
each computing bar and the jacks being arranged in the usual way, in reverse denominational order relatively to the computing bars. The jacks 46 are actuated individually by the selector 43 as it traverses the computing zone, and each jack 46 is effective to depress a thrust-bar 47 to operate a lever 48, to actuate a transposition linkage 50, which may be like that disclosed in the atent to F. A. Hart No. 1,287,301, dated ecember 10, 1918. Each transposition linkage engages a bell-crank 51, to swing the latter about its pivot 52 to move the computing bar of corresponding denominational order forwardly to bring the indexing pins 41 into register with the pin-setting bars 38. Anyv one of the indexmg pins may then be set, as previously described, by the actuation of the corresponding numeral-key. 
 The general operator 42 may comprise a cross-bar 53 to engage the lower ends of the set indexing pins 41 to drive the computing bars forwardly distances equal in value to the set indexing pins and run the number into the dial-wheels 30 of the register. The computing bars may be suitably guided, and are provided at their forward ends with racks 54 meshing with pinions 55 to drive the dial-wheels .30 of the register, said dial-wheels having numerals which may be observed through a sight opening 56. 
 By an inspection of Figure 2, it will be seen that the register is divided into three sets of dial-wheels, '57 and 57 58 and 58 and 59, representing units and tens of pence, units and tens of shillings, and pounds sterling, respectively. It will be understood that the pounds dial-wheels 59 and the associated computing bars are like pinion 62 so that the latter may be actuated s an the return stroke of the general op- "erator' 42, by an arm 63 -on a carry-over shaft 64,:the latter having a one-way drivgconnection with a pinion 65, meshing with a gear 66 to be driven bv a rack 67 forming part of the general operator 42. The carry-over mechanism may be like that used in the Underwood bookkeeping machine and which is clearly shown and described in the patent to Hart, No. 1,270,411, above referred to. As above stated, the dial-wheels 59 represent pounds sterling and are of a decimal denominational order; consequently, the associated indexing mechanism, including the indexing pins 41, and thecarry-over mechanism operate the same as in the usual decimal system. 
 Since there are twenty shillings in one pound, the units-of-shillings dial wheel 58 and the associated computing bar 68 may also be like the ones used in the usual decimal machine, the bar being provided with nine indexing pins. The tens-of-shillings dial-wheel 58 is provided with a special computing bar 7 (Figures 2 and 5), presently to be described, and said dial-wheel may be actuated by its associated computing bar or the carry-over mechanism controlled by the units-of-shillings dial-wheel 58. The tens-of-shillings dial-wheel 58 is provided with five carry-over teeth 71, equally spaced on its periphy. so that a carryover action may be initiated at every other digit position of said dial wheel, or, in other words, each time the amount in the shillings position runs above 19. 
 Since there is never more than 1 to be computed in the tens-of-shillings position, the tens-of-shillings computing bar 70 is provided with a single indexing pin 72 equal to 1 in value; and said pin may be ordinarily set by the 1 key through the associated pin-setting linkage including the pin-setting bar 38. 
 To compute pence, there is proviied a tens-of-pence computing bar 73 and a nitsof-pence computing bar 74 (Figures 2, 3, 4, and 5) located adjacent to each other. When the computationto be eifected is from 1 to 9, inclusive, the corresponding indexing pin on the units-of-pence bar may be set, after which the set-up number may be run into the register by means of the general operator, as hereinbefore described. When it is desired to add 10 pence, the carriage, as it reaches the tens-of-pence denominational position in a column, moves the tens-of-pence bar forwardly, by the previously-described denomination-selecting mechanism, to bring a' projection 75 of a lever 76, pivoted at 77 on the tens-of-pence bar 73 (Figure 3), under the 1 pin-setting bar 38. The 1 may then be typed in the tens-of-pence position, the 1 pin-setting bar 38 engaging the projection 75 to swing the lever'76 about its pivot, and the rear end of said lever engaging in a slot 78 of a second lever 80, pivoted at 81, to swing a nose 82 on the lever 80 into the path of the cross-bar 53 of the general operator (Figure 5) the lever 80 being held in either of its positions by a suitable detent 83. The carriage then moves to the units-of-pence position where the 0 of the 10 may be typed, and, since the 0 numeral-key is not connected to the computing mechanism, nothing happens to the latter. The general operator may then be actuated to run the set-up number into the register. Ordinarily, the general operator moves forwardly approximately two digit distances before a computing baris moved, or, in other words, before the nearest indexing in (9 pin) is reached. The nose 82 of t e settable lever on the tens-of-pence computing bar 73 bears such a relation to the cross-bar 53 of the general operator as to be engaged two digit distances sooner upon the forward stroke of said cross-bar. The tens-of-pence computing bar 73 is moved forward idly one digit distance, and then a lateral projection 84 thereon (Figures 3, 4 and 6) engages a fin-like extension. 85 on an indexing pin 86 carried by the units-of-pence bar 74. The tens-of-pence computing bar may then complete the balance of its movement to drive the units-of-pence bar 74 forwardly ten digit distances, thus running 10 into the pence dial-wheels of the register. 
 The nnits-of-pence dial-wheel 57 a and the tens-of-pence dial-wheel 57 b are rigidly connected to each other thus forming a single computing unit 87, bearing numerals from O to 11, inclusive, on its periphery, said unit having a single carry-over tooth 88 to initiate a carry-over action when 11 passes from the sight opening 56, the carry-over action being completed, as above described, upon the return stroke of the general operator. 
 To add 11 pence, the setting of the mechanism while the carriage is in the tens-ofpence position is the same as that described for 10 pence. The carriage then moves to the units-of-pence position, and the unitsof-pence computing bar 74 is moved forwardly to its pin-setting position. The 1 may then be typed to set or depress the 1 indexing pin 90, thus moving a fin-like projection 91 thereon (Figures 3, 4 and 6) into the path of the lateral projection 84 of the tens-of-pence computing bar 73. Thus the units-of-pence bar 74 is moved one digit distance sooner than when adding ten pence, and consequently 11 is run into the pence computing unit 87 of the register. 
 After the set-up number has been run into the register, the indexing pins may be restored to their normal ineffective positions by the usual pin-restoring platform 92, which may beactuated in the usual wa during the latter part of the return stroke of the general operator. The nose 82 of the settable lever 80 on the tens-of-pence computing bar 73 may also be restored to its normal ineffective position by the pin-restoring platform 92, which engages a projection 93 on the setting lever 76 (Figures 5 and 6) to swing it about its pivot 77 and actuate the set-table lever 80. It will be understood that the indexing pins may be held in their normal or depressed positions by the usual detents (not shown). 
 To prevent the tens-of-pence bar 73 and the units-of-pence bar 74 from moving laterally away from each other, which may occur when the extension 84 on the tens-ofpence bar 73 engages the fins 85 and 91 on the indexing pins 86 and 90, respectively, to drive the units-of-pence bar 74, there is provided a headed stud 94 (Figures 4 and 6) on the units-of-pence bar. Said stud pro- 'ects through a slot 95 in the tens-of-pence ar 73, and its head 96 engages the remote side of the tens-of-pence bar 73, thus preventing any separation of said computing bars. 
 The machine may be set to subtraction either automatically or manually in a manner clearly shown and described in the Minton Patent, No. 1,280,065, and the Gumprecht Patent, No. 1,338,012, herein referred to. To set the machine to subtraction manually, there may be provided a key 97 (Figure 1), having a thrust-bar 98 extending rearwardly therefrom and connected to an upwardly-extending arm 100 on a shaft 101, so that the latter may be rocked in a clock wise direction by pushing said key 97 rearwardly. The rock-shaft 101 is provided with a pawl 102, which normallf holds a subtraction-setting slide 103. The pawl 102 is withdrawn from holding relation when the subtraction key 97 is operated, to permit the slide 103 to be drawn rearwardlyby means of a spring 99. The movement of the subtraction slide 103 is effective to change the connections between the numeralkeys and the pin-setting linkages, so that each numeral-key may actuate the in-setting linkage having a complementa value, the complemental method of subtraction to the base nine being employed, as in the U11: derwood bookkeeping machine. To change the connections, there is connected with the slide a downwardly-projecting arm 104 on a shaft 105 by whlch the latter may be rocked. The rock-shaft 105 is provided with a forwardly-extending arm 106, enga g with an arm 107, extending rearwardly rom a universal bar 108, toswing the latter about its pivot 110. The universal bar .108 extends crosswise of and engages all of the key-operated rock-shafts 33 to slide them forwardly in walls 111 and 112 of the usual supporting frame 113 (Figures 1 and 3), thus moving the arms 35 out of en agement with the studs 36 on the bars 34 of the pinsetting linkages and bringing the arms 114 into effective relation withstuds 115 on the pin-setting linka es of complemental value. As a result of t is change of connections, the complement of a num er being typed is set up on the computing bars, when the carriage is in'a computing zone. a 
 The subtraction-setting slide 103- is also effective to set the 9 pins 116 on the various computing bars. This may be done b the usual 9 (pin-setting bail 118, whic may be operate in the usual manner by intermediate mechanism (not shownl connected to the subtraction-setting slide, as disclosed in the above-mentioned Minton and Gumprecht patents. Said bail 118 engages with 9 pin-operating levers, including those numbered 120, 121 and 122, on the units-ofshillings bar 68, units-of-pence bar 74 and a pence complement bar 123, 
positions indicated in Figure 5 when the machine is set to. the state -of subtraction. 
 The machine being now in the state of subtraction, let it be assumed that it is desired to subtract one penny. The. carriage, as it moves to the units-of-pence position, 
moves the units-ofpence computing bar 74' forwardly to its pin-setting position through the intermediary of a special bell-crank 131 (Figures 6 and 7) assoclated with the transposition linkage of corresponding denominational order, said bell-crank having an interponent 132 pivoted thereon at 133, and which normally occupies the position in Figure 7, so that a projection 134 of said interponent may engage an abutment 135 on the units-of-pence bar 74 to move the latter forwardly to its pin-setting position. The inter onent 132 is in the nature of a switch, an may be utilized to move the units-ofpence bar 74 or the pence auxiliary bar 128 forward selectively, for a purpose hereinafter described. When the units-of-pence. 
bar is in its pin-settingposition, the 1 numeral key may be operated to type the number 1 and operate the pin-setting linkage oficom'plemental value, which is connected at this time to set the 8 pin 136 on the units-of-pence -.bar .74. Since the pence dial-wheel unit 87 has 12 spaces or digits, the com lement of 1 in the pence position is 11; consequently, it is necessary to run 11 into the register when subtracting 1 in this position. To do this, 
10 is run by means of the units-of-pence bar 74 and 1 by means of the ence com= plement bar 123, now to be descr bed. The 8 pin, which has been set, is engaged to drive the units-of-pence bar two digit distances sooner through the medium of the pence auxiliary bar 128, the latter being driven by the cross-bar 53 of the general 0 erator, which engages a nose 137 on t e lever 126 v( Figure 5); a lateral-projection 138 on the pence auxiliary bar engaging the depressed 8 pin of the units-of-pence bar. Consequently, the latter is driven forwardlyten digit distances by the general operator through the intermediary of the pence auxiliary bar, and 10 is run into the register. It is still necessary to run in another di it to complete the 11. For this purpose, 518 pence auxiliary complement bar 129 is also driven forwardly .through the medium of the lever 127 thereon, which has its nose 140 in the path of the cross-bar 53, as in Figure 5. A lateral projection 141 on the pence auxiliary complement bar 129 engages with 'the pin 156 of the pence complement bar 123, to drive the latter forwardly ten digit distances, to drive a computing wheel 142 having no numeral, and hereinafter referred to as the dummy computing wheel 142. The dummy computing wheel 142is provided with a carry-over tooth 143 to initiate a carry-over action when said computing wheel is driven through ten digit distances; the-carry-over action being completed in the usual way upon the return stroke of the general opera-tor, as previously described. Thus, the extra 1 is run into the pence dialwheel unit, completing the 11. 
 To subtract as high as eight digits in the pence position, the operation of the machine is like that described for the subtraction of one digit, except that the different indexing pins are set for the different numbers, the indexing pins being engaged two digit distances sooner by the lateral projection 138 than they would be if engaged directly by the cross-bar 53, and an additional 1 being run in through the medium of the pence complement bar 123. 
 It will be understood that when 0 is to be subtracted in pence position, the 9 pins remains set on the units-of-pence computing bar 74, and, consequently, the pence dial-wheel unit 87 makes a complete rotation upon the actuation of the general operator, thus showing the number previously indicated at the sight-opening. 
 The operation of the machine when subtracting 9, 10 and 11 pence is somewhat different than that described for subtracting 0 to 8 pence, inclusive, and will now be described. To subtract 9 pence, it is necessary to add the complement of 9 in pence position, which is 3. To do this, as will presently be seen, 2 is run into the register byameans of the units-of-pence bar 74, and is run into the register by means of the pence complement bar 123. When the carriage reaches the units-of-pence position, the units-of-pence bar 74 is moved forwardly through the denomination-selecting mechanism to a pin-setting position, thus bringing the indexing pin 86 under a finger 144 of a lever 145, pivoted at 77 on the tens-ofpence computing bar 73 (Figures 6 and 10) The 9 is then typed, and, since the machine is in the state of subtraction, the 9 key-operated rock-shaft 33 is disconnected from the 9 pin-setting linkage, and the other rock-shafts 33 are all connected with the usual 9 pin-retracting linkage 146, Figures 1, 2 and 3), through a s 147. Consequently, the 9 key is effective to actuate the 9 pin-retracting linkage 146, 
the latter engaging the rear end of a, lever 148 to swing it about its pivot 150 (in the tens-of-pence computing bar, (Figures 3 and 10), the forward end of said lever en gaging with the lever 145 to swing the latter about its pivot 77, to depress the indexing pin 86. lVhile typing the 9, it is also necessary to retract the 9 indexing pin 116 on the units-of-pence bar 74 so asto nullify its effect, and also to withdraw the nose 82 of the lever 80 from the path of the general operator, so as to render the tens-of-pence bar 73 ineffective. For this purpose, the 9 pin-retracting linkage 146 engages the 9 pin-actuating lever 121 to withdraw the 9 pin 116.from the path of the cross-bar of the general operator. The 9 pin-actuating lever 121 is provided with a lip 151, which engages a lateral projection 152 of a lever 153, to swing the latter about its pivot 150 to withdraw the nose 82 of the lever 80 from the path of the cross-bar 53 of the general operator, the lever 153 being connected to the lever 80 by means of a stud 154 on the latter, projecting into a slot 155 in the lever 153. It will be seen, by an inspection of Figure 10, that the lip 151 is long enough to engage with the lateral projection 152 when the units-of-pence bar 74 is in its selected position. 
 Thus, the lever 126 of the pence auxiliary bar 128 and the lever 127 of the pence auxiliary complement bar 129, and also the 9 pin 156 on the pence complement bar 123, are left in their set positions; and consequently, when the general operator is actuated after typing 9 in the units-of-pence position, the cross-bar 53 engages the noses 137 and 140 of the levers 126 and 127 to move the pence'auxiliary bar 128 and the pence auxiliary complement bar 129 forward. During this forward movement of said bars, the pence auxiliary bar 128 moves idly until the lateral projection 138 thereof engages the set indexing pin 86, after which the units-of-pence bar 74 is moved forward two digit distances to run 2 into the pence dial-wheel. The lateral projection 141 on the pence auxiliary complement bar 129 also engages with the set indexing pin 156 on the pence complement bar 123, to drive the latter forward ten digit distances to initiate a carry-over action through the dummy dial-wheel 142, to run the 1 into the pence wheel on the return stroke of the general operator. Thus 3, which is the sum of the 2 added by the units-of-pence bar and the 1 carried over from the dummy dial-wheel, is run into the pence dial-wheel. To subtract 10 pence, it is necessary to run2 into the pence dial-wheel, which is the complement of 10. For this purpose, 1 is run into the pence dial-wheel by the units-of-pence bar 74, as will presently appear, and 1 is run into the dial-wheel though the medium of the dummy dialwheel, as previously described. The mabar 73. The 
chine having been, set to subtraction as in Figure 5, the carriage, as it moves to the tensof-pence position, moves the tens-of-pence computing bar 7 3 forward by means of the associated denomination-selecting connection and the transposition linkage 50, to 
move the finger 144 over an indexing pin' 157, (Figure 9), which occupies a position in front of the indexing pin 86 on the units 10 of-pence bar 74. The 1 of the 10 pence may then be typed, the 1 key at this time being connected by thecorresponding rockshaft 33 with the 8 pin-setting linkage, and said rock-shaft being at this time con- 1 hosted with the 9 pin-retracting linkage 146, which engages the lever 148 to operate the lever 145, and depresses or sets the indexing pin 157. The 8 pin-setting link a e is also operated to actuate a lever 158, 
\ 2 pivoted at 150 on the tens-of-pence bar 73, 
to set up a condition which is efi'ective when subtracting 11 pence, as hereinafter described. In order to detain lever 158 in either its normal or its actuated position, 
 provision is made of a spring 158, shown in dotted lines in Figure 3, to urge a detent member, not shown, forwardly through an opening in the bar 73 to seat itself in either of the openin 158 in the lever 158, 
 according to the position of the lever. 
 Since a 0 is to be typed in the units position, and further since the 0 numeral key is not connected with the computing mechanism, it is necessary to retract the 9 pin on the units-of-pence bar 74 while the when the lever 153 is operated, the lateral projection 152 operates the 9 pin-actuating lever 121 to retract the 9 pin 116. I As a result of the levers 153 and 80 being connected to each other, the nose 82 on the latter is also withdrawn from the path of the general operator. The carriage then moves to the units-of-pence position, when the 0 of the 10 is typed. The general operator may be then actuated'to drive the pence auxiliary bar 128 through the set lever 126 thereon, said pence auxiliary bar moving idly forward until the set indexing pin 157 of the units-of-pence bar 74 is engaged by the lateral projection 138; the units-of-pence bar bein then moved one digit distance to run one igit into the pence dial-wheel. The 1 other digit is run into the pence dial-wheel, as previously stated, by means of the pence auxiliary complement bar 129, and the pence I 55 complement bar 123, the latter rotating the dummy wheel 142 to initiate a carry-over action, to carry said other digit into the pence dial-wheel on the return stroke of the general operator. 
 It will be understood that the lever 148 on the tens-of-pence bar 73 may be actuated while said bar occupies its normal or operated position to facilitate the setting of either one of the ins 86 or 157 by the lever 145. It will furt ier be understood that the lower lip 160 of the 9 pin-setting lever 121 is comparatively short, so as to normally be clear of the lateral projection 152 of the lever 153, to permit the setting of the 9 pin 116 when the machine is in the state of addition. 
 To subtract 11 pence it is necessary to add 1 which is the complement of 11. To do this, the machine is again set to subtraction, as hereinbefore described. The 1 of the 11 is then typed in tens-of-pence position, and the indexing pin 157 is set in the same manner as that described for subtracting 10 pence. The setting of the special indexing pin 157 is merely incidental, and is without effect when subtracting 11 pence, as will presently appear. When the 1 numeralkey is operated, together with the setting of the special indexing pin 15-7 and the retracting of the 9 pin 116 on the units-of-pence bar 74, through the medium of the pivoted lever 153 on the tens-of-pence bar 73, the lever 158 is also operated, as previously stated, by the 8 pin-setting linkage which at this time is connected with the l numeralkey. Said lever 158 is provided at its rear end with a lateral projection 162, which extends crosswise and over the tens-of-pence bar 73, and projects" into a slot 163 (Figures 6, 7 and 8) of the interponent 132, so that the latter may be shifted to render the associated denomination-selecting connection ineffective with the units-of-pence bar 74, and efiective with the pence auxiliary bar 128. 
It will be seen that the rear end of the-lever 158 is moved upwardly to swing the interponent 132 about its pivot 133 to the position in Figure 8, where the offset 134 has been moved out of effective relation with the abutment 135 of the units-of-pence bar 74. and into effective relation with an abutment or stud 164 on the pence auxiliary bar 128. Conse uently, after the 1 is typed in the tens-o pence position, and the carriage moves to units-of-pence position, the unitsof-pence bar 74 remains in its normal position,and instead the pence auxiliary bar 128 is selected or moved forward by the units-of pence denomination-selecting con. nection. As the pence auxiliary bar is thus moved, a finger 165 of a lever 166 (Figures 3, 5 and 6), pivoted at 167 on said auxiliary bar, is brought into efi'ective relation with the 8 pin-setting bar 38. The operation of the parts to this p nt is the same as described for subtracting 10 pence. The 1 of the 11 may now be typed in the unitsof-pence position, thus operating the 8 pin-setting bar 38, which. is connected with the 1 key, to depress the lever 166 to withdraw the nose 137 of the lever 126 from the path of the cross-bar 53 of the general operator, to render the pence auxilia bar ineffective; the levers 126 and 166 ing mounted on opposite sides of the pence auxiliary bar, and the connection between them comprising a stud 169 on the lever 126, which projects through a slot 168 in the pence auxiliary bar and into the hole 170 (Figure 6) in the lever 166. If the general operator is actuated to run in the number, 
 the pence auxiliary bar 128 remains unoperated until its lateral projection 138 has seated itself in a cut-out 171 (Figures 3, 4 and 5), in the cross-bar 53 of the general operator, so as to bring the front face of said projection 138 approximately .in line with the front face of said cross-bar. The pence auxiliary bar may then be actuated idly to the extreme forward position of the general operator, the lateral projection coming to a position one digit distance from the indexing pin 157 which is still set and without effect on the units-of-pence bar. Consequently, the units-ofpence bar 74 remains ineffective. It will be understood that the indexing pin 156 on the pence complement bar 123 and the lever 127 on the pence auxiliary complement bar 129 are the only effective ones remaining set prior to the forward movement of the general operator, and, consequently, the pence auxiliary complement bar 129 is operated to drive the pence complement bar 123, to initiate a carry-over action by means of the dummy dial-wheel 142; the carry-over action being complemented on the return stroke of the general operator to run the 1 into the pence dialwhee-l. 
 The cross-bar 53 of the general operator is effective, after the number has been run into the register, to restore all of the computing bars in the usual way by engaging heels 172. The indexing pins and the various levers on the computing bars, including the lever 158, are restored by the platform 92, the latter engaging with a finger 173 on the lever 158. Y 
 The lateral projection 138 of the pence auxiliary bar 128 occupies a position about two digit distances in advance of the lateral projection 141 of the pence auxiliary complement bar 129, thus bringing it closer to the pin-restoring platform 92, and, consequently, the lateral projection 138 would ordinarily be moved clear of the pin-restoring platform rather late in the return stroke ofthe general operator. As a result, there may be a tendency for the pin-restoring platform 92 to collide with the projection 138, 
the platform, it will be remembered, being actuated during the latter part of the return stroke of the general operator. To avoid any such collision, there is'provided a spring 174 (Figures 3 and 4), which may be normally under tension and connected to a stud 175 on the cross-bar 53, and a stud 176 on the pence auxiliary bar 128 Said spring is effective to cause the pence auxiliary bar 128 to be drawn rearwardly against the cross-bar 53, so as to cause said auxiliary bar to follow the cross-bar to move the lateral projection 138 clear of the platform 92 at the earliest possible moment. The auxiliary bar 128 travels with the general operator until it is arrested in its normal position by the usual abutment .177 (Figures 1 and 3). 
Thus the restoration of the pence auxiliary pence position, and should the interponent' be in co-operative relation with the pence auxiliary bar 128. The pin-restoring platform is effective, during an elimination o eration, to engage the finger 173 of the lever 158 on the tens-of-pence bar and restore the switch to its lower position (Figure 7) The abutment 135 may be in the form of a lever 180, pivoted at 181 and provided with a finger 182, which is pressed against a lateral projection 183 of the units-of-pence bar 74 by a spring 183 (Figure 7). The end of the abutment lever 180 may be beveled as at 184 to afford clearance for the lateral rojection 134 of the interponent 132 when the latter is in effective relation with the pence auxiliary bar 128, V 
 The cross-bar 53 is provided with a cutout 185, into which the lateral projection 141 of the pence auxiliary complement bar 129 seats itself when the lever 127 is in its ineffective position, so that the pence auxiliary complement bar may .be ineffective during an addition operation. 
 It is desirable to set the 1 pin 72 on the tens-of-shillings bar 70 (Figure 5) when the machine is set to subtraction, for a purpose hereinafter set forth. To do this, the subtraction-setting bail 118, when it is operated, swings the lever 124 about its pivot 186. Said lever 124 may have a pin-and-slotconnection 187 with an intermediate lever 188, to swing the latter about its pivot 190 and move the forward end thereof downwardly to depress the 1 pin 72, with which said ing set. 
lever en ages. Under certain conditions, the in%2 may be restored-by the actuation of t e 9 pin-retracting linkage 146, hich depresses the rear endof the lever 124 to actuate the intermediate lever 188 to raise the 1 pin 72 and render it inefiective. 
 It will be understood that the 9 pins on the computing bars associated withthe pounds dial-wheels 59 are set by the subtraction-setting bail, as previously-stated, and that when any digit other than 0 is typed while one of said computing bars is selected, the indexing pin of complemental value is set on the selected bar and the set 9 pin is retracted or rendered ineflective on the same bar by the 9 pin-retracting linkage .146. 
To briefly describe the operation of the computing mechanism, when the machine is in the state of subtraction, let it be assumed that the register reads 00231 pounds, 6s hil- V lings and 5 pence, and that it is desired to subtract 3 pounds, 15 shillings and 7 pence. The machine having been set to subtraction, the carriage is fed to the units-of-pounds position when the 3 may be typed, thus setting the 6 indexing pin which is of complemental value, and retracting the 9 pin which had previously been set up by the subtraction-setting bail 118, the 9 pins on the computing bars of denominational order higher than units-of-pounds remain- Thus the set-up number on the computing bars in the pounds section of the totalizer is 99996. The complemental .base for shillings is 19; Consequently, the complement of the number 15, which is 4, is tobe set up in the shillings position. When the tens-of-shillings position is reached by the carriage, the 1 of the 15 may be typed, the 1 numeraikey at this time operating the 8 pin-setting bar 38 without any eons uential effect. The 
usual 9 pin-retracting inkage 146 is also actuated by the arm 147 on the 1 rockshaft 33, to operate the lever 188 of the tens-of-shillings computing bar to retract or restore the 1 pin 72 to its normal positiomthus rendering the tens-of-shillings bar ineffective. The carriage then moves to the units-of-shillings position, when the 5 of the 15 may be typed 'to set up the 4 indexing pin; thus, the set-up number in shillings position-is 4. 
It will be understood that if a number, 
 like 7, for exam le, is to be subtracted m the shillings section of the totalizer, and 
for which the complement to the base 19 is 12, it is necessa to run 1 into the tens-of-shillings positlon. The 1 pin 72 remains setv on the tens-of-shillings bar, since a 0 would ordinarily be typed in the tensof-shillings position without any died; onthe computing mechanism. This is one reason for setting the 1 pin 72 'whenwthe machine is set to the state of ubtraction, 
 mental value, and retracting the set F claim After the number has been typed in shillings fposition, the carriage moves to the tens-o -pence position, where a 0 is typed. The carriage then-proceeds to the units-ofpence position, where the 7 is typed, thus setting the 2 indexing pin of comple- 977 on the computing bar 74. The number t us set up is 99996 04 02. The general operator may then be actuated, and, since the levers 126 and 127 on the computing bars 128 and 129, respectively, andthe 9 pin 156 on the computing bar 123 are still set, the unitsof-pence bar is driven two digit positions further, thus running 4 into the pence dial-wheel The carry-over is also initiated .through'the dummy dial-wheel 142, which Wis.- completed upon a return stroke of the q general operator, thus running in 99996 04 05, which gives the difference 00227 10 10.- 
the pence dial-wheel unit 87 and the shlllings dial-wheels 58 and 58 to make a complete revolution to carry over 1 into the units-of-pounds dial-wheel 59. This is accomplished by the pence auxiliary complement bar 129, which drives the pence comlement bar 123 forwardly to rotate the ummy dial-wheel 142, to initiate a carryover action which is run into the pence dialwheel unit 87W, Due to the setting of the 1 pin 72 on the tens-of-shillings bar 70 and the 9 pin on the units-of-shillings bar 68, 19 is run into the shillings dialwheels by said bars, and with the 1 carried over from the dummy dial-wheel makes 20, thus causing 1 to be carried over into the units-of-pounds dial-wheel 142. It will be understood that with this arrangement'of parts there is provided simplified mechanism for computlng according'to the British monetary system, and that the changes required for effecting such computation have been confined practically to the computing bars, so that the same pinsetting bars or linkages used in this machine may be used in machines'arranged for computation according to the decimal system, thereby greatly reducing the expense 1n manufacture of machines of this type. 
section of the register, the mathe- Variations may be resorted to'within the g scope of'the inventiomand portions of the inn rovements ma' be used without others; 
aving thus ascribed my invention, I 
In a computing machine, the'combina- 'itio n' of a plurality of computing devices, 
a carriage to travel relatively to said comthrough the medium of which the computing devices may be individually rendered effective by the selecting mechanism when the latter is operated by the carriage. 
 2. In a computing machine, the combination of a plurality of computing devices, a carriage to tlSXGl relatively to said computing devices, a denomination-selecting connection operable by the carriage, and a switch associated with the connection by which the computing devices may be individually and selectively rendered effective by the denomination-selecting connection. 
 3. In a computing machine, the combiner tion of a plurality of computing devices, a carriage to travel relatively to said computing devices, selecting mechanism operable by the carriage, a switch associated with the selecting mechanism, and means 'to set said switch so that the computing devices may be rendered eifective selectively one at a time by the selecting mechanism. 
 4. In a computing machine, the combination of a carriage, a relatively fixed register comprising computing devices, settable elements on said computing devices, setting means for the settable elements, an intermediate connection operable by said carriage, an interponentoperable byv the intermediate connection for actuating any one of a plurality of said computing devices to bring the settable elements thereon into effective relation with the setting means, and means to shift said interponent to determine which one of said plurality .of computing devices is to be actuated by the intermediate connection. 
 5. In a computing machine, the combination of a carriage, a relati ely fixed register comprising computing bars, settable elements on said computing bars, key-operated setting devices, a connection operable by said carriage, an interponent operable by said connection for moving any one of a plurality of said computing bars, and means to shift said interponent selectively to determin which 1a of said plurality ofcomputing bars is to be operated-by: the carriage to move the settable elements into effective relation with the setting devices. 
 6. In a computing machine, the combination of a carriage, a relatively fixed register comprising computing devices, settable elements on said computing devices, setting means for the settable elements, means operable by said carriage to render a plurality of said computing devices effective one at a time, said operable means comprising a bellcrank, and settable means to selectively determine which computing device is to be rendered effective when the bell-crank is operated. 
 7. In a computing machine, the combination of a carriage, a selector on said carriage, a register comprising two computing bars, 
a connection intermediate the computin bars and said selector, a switch associate with said connection, and means to set said switch so that the computing bars may be selectively rendered effective through said connection. 
 8. In a computing machine, the combination of a carriage, a selector on said carriage, a register comprising computing bars, settable elements on said computing bars, setting means for said settable elements, and a switch through the medium of which the computing bars may be actuated one at a time to bring the settable elements into effective relation with said setting means, said switch beingshiftable byv the setting means. 
 9. In a computing machine, the combination of a register having a plurality of computing devices, settable elements on said computing devices, operating means for said computing devices, and key-actuated means effective to setone of the settable elements and to render the operating means efi'ective with another one of the computing devices. 
10. In a computing machine, the combination of a register having a plurality of comtion of a register having three computing devices arranged adjacent to each other, settable elements on said computing devices, setting devices, a carriage, means comprising two connections operable by said carriage to render the first and the second computing devices efi'ective one at a. time in their respective order, one connection for the first computing device and one connection for the second computing device, and a switch associated with the second connection, said switch being shiftable by the settable element on the first computing device when said settable element is actuated by one of the setting devices, the shifting of said switch being effective to render the second connection effective with the third computing device so that the latter may be setto an effective position. 
 12. In a computing machine, the combination of a register having a tens computing device, a units computing device, and a units auxiliary computing device, indexing elements on the units computing device, a settable lever on the tens computing device, a carriage, setting devices, means comprising two connections operable by the carria e, one connection for the units computing ovice to actuate the latter to bring the indexing elements into efiective relation with the setting devices, the other connection being efiective to actuate the tens computing de vice to bring the settable lever thereon into effective relation with one of the setting devices, and a switch associated with the units connection, said switch being shiftable by the settable lever on the tens computing device so as to render the units connection ineffective on the units computing device and 4 effective with the units auxiliary computing be moved to of the units nation of a register comprising a tens computing device, a units computing device, an auxiliary device, settable elements on said devices, setting means for the settable elements, a carriage, denomination-selecting mechanism, said denomination-selecting mechanism comprising two operable connections, one for the tens computing device and one for the units. computing device, said connections being operable by said carriage, and means operable by said setting means to render the connection for the units computing device effective with the auxiliary device. 
 15. In a computing machine, the combination of a register comprising a tens computing device, a units computing device, an auxiliary device, settable elements on said devices, setting means for the settable elements, a carriage, denomination-selecting mechanism comprising two connections operable by said carriage, one for the tens computing device and one for the units computmg device, and means operable by said setting means to render the connection associated with the units computin device inefiective with the latter and eective with the auxiliary device. 
 16. In a computing machine, the combination of a register, a first, a second and a third computing device for said register, a carria denomination-selecting mechanism comprising two connections, one of said connections extending to the first computing device, the other connection extending normally to the second computing device, settable elements on the computing devices, 
key-operated setting devices, the denomination-selecting connections being operable by the carriage to move the computing devices one at a time to bring the settable elements into effective relation with the setting devices, and means operable to render the second connection effective with the third computing device when one of the setting devices is operated to set one of the settable elements on the first computing device. 
 17. In a computing machine, the combination of a register, comprising a tens computing device, a units computing device and an auxiliary computing device, a carriage, denomination-selecting mechanism comprising two connections,'one for the tens computing device and one for the units computlng device, settable elements on the computing devices, key-operated setting devices, a selector on the carriage, to operate the denomination-selecting connections to move the computing devices one at a time to bring the settable elements into efi'ective relation with the setting devices, and means operable by one of the setting devices to render the units connection efi'ective with the auxiliary computing device. 
 18. In a computing machine, the combination of a register having a tens computing device, a units computing device and asubunits computing device, settable elements on the computing devices, a carriage, denomination-selecting mechanism comprising two connections operable by said carriage, one for the tens computing device and one for the units computing device, key-operated setting devices, the computing devices being operable one at .a time by the denomination-selecting connections to bring the settable elements into eflective relation with the setting devices, and means operable by one of the setting devices when the tens computing device is in its effective osition, to render the units denomination-Se ecting con nection inefi'ective with the units computing device and efl'ective with the sub-units com-' puting device, so that the latter may be rendered efi'ective when the carriage passesfrom the tensdenominational position tothe units. denominational position. 
 19. In a computing machine, the combination of a register comprising a dial-wheel, a drivin element for said dial-Wheel, indexing evices on said driving element, a second element, a setting finger on said second element, a key-operated device to actuate the setting finger, and a connection to move the drivin element in the plane in which it lies to ring one of the indexing devices into cooperative relation with the setting finger so that the indexing device may be set thereby. 
 2t). In a computing machine, the combinatlon of a register comprisin a dial-wheel, a driving element for said diafiwheel, indexing devices on said driving element, a second element, a setting finger on said second element, key-operated means to actuate said settin finger, and a connection to move said secon element in the plane in which it lies to bring the setting finger into co-operative relation with one of the indexing devices so gllilat the indexing device may be set by the ger. 
 21. In a computing machine, the combina tion of a register comprising a dial-wheel, a driving element for said dial-wheel, indexing devices on said driving element, a second element, a setting device .comprising a finger on said second element, means to operate said setting device, and connections to selectively move either the driving element or the second element relatively to the other, so that an indexing device may be brought into co-operative relation with thesetting) finger, or that the setting finger may be rought into co-operative relation with an indexing device, to permit the setting by said setting finger of the indexing device between which and the setting finger a co-operative relation may have been established. 
 22. In a computing machine, the combination of a register, a pence dial-wheel, a tens of-pence computing bar, a units-of-pence' computing bar to drive said dial-wheel, -the units-of-pence computing bar having two indexing pins, a setting device on the tens-ofpence computing anism operable v the numeral-key to actuate the setting device, the latter having a' finger which normally lies between thetwo indexing pins so as to permit an idle operation of the setting device, a carriage, and 
connections operable by the carriage, to set the tens-of-pence computing bar to bring into effective relation the setting finger and either one of the indexing pins so that the indexing pins may be set by the finger of the settin device. 
23. n a computing machine, the combination of a register, a pence dial-wheel, a tensof-pence computing bar, a units-of-pence computing bar to drive said dial-wheel, the 
units-of-pence computing bar having two indexing pins, a setting device on the tens-of pence computing bar, anumeral-key, mechanism operable by the numeral-key to actuate the setting device, the setting device having a finger which normally lies between the two indexing i'ns' so as to permit an idle operation of t e settin device, a carriage, and connections operab e by the carriage to set the tens-of-pence computing bar relative- 1y to the units-of-pence computing bar, or vice versa,-to render the finger effective with either one of the two indexing pins so-that the selected indexing pin may be set by the actuation of said setting device. 
 24. In a computing machine, the combination of a register comprising a computing bar, a numeral-key, mechdevice, a set of indexing elements on saidcomputing device, an element adjacent to the computing device, a settable device on the adjacent element, subtraction-setting means comprising a setting member to set one of the indexing elements on said computing device and the settable device of the adjacent element, key-operated devices, intermediate mechanism operable by the latter to set one of the indexing elements on the computing device, and means operable by one of the key-operated devices to actuate the settable device of the adjacent element, the settable device being effective to retract the indexing element set by the subtractionsetting member. 
 25. In a computing machine, the combination of a register, a computing bar, a set of indexing elements on said computing bar, one of said indexing elements having an operating lever, a bar adjacent to the comput ing bar for driving the latter, a device on the adjacent bar settable to cause said adjacent bar to be driven, subtraction-setting means effective to set one of the indexing elements on said computing bar and the settable device on the adjacent bar, key-operated setting devices, means operable by the latter to set one of the indexing elements on the computing bar, and a lever on said computing bar operable by one of the key-operated setting devices to actuate the operatlng lever on the computing bar to retract the indexing element set by the subtraction-setting means. 
 26. In a computing machine, the combination of a register having a computing bar of tens position, a settable device thereon, a computing bar of units position, indexing pins including a 9 pin on the units computing bar, a setting lever associated with the "9 in, subtraction-setting mechanism to set sald 9 pin on the units computing bar and the settable device on the tens computing bar, key-operated setting bars, and means on the tens computing bar operable by one of the setting bars to set one of the indexing pins on the units computing bar, said setting bar being also effective to actuate the'settable device on the tens computing bar to actuate the setting lever on the units gomputing bar and restore the associated 9- pin. a 
 27. In a computing machine, the combination of a register having a computing bar of tens position, a settable device thereon, a computing bar of units position, indexing pins including a 9 pin on the units computingbar, a setting lever associated with the 9 pin, subtraction-setting mechanism to set said 9 pin on the units computing bar and the settable device on the tens computing bar, key-operated setting bars, means to actuate the tens bar to bring the settable device into effective relation with one of the key-operated setting bars and the setting lever associated with the 9 pin, and means operable by said key-operated setting bar to setone of the indexing pins of the units bar, said setting bar being also effective to actuate the settable device on the tens bar-to actuate the setting lever on the units bar and restore the associated 9" pin. 
 28. In a computing machine. the combination of a register having a computing bar of tens position, a settable device thereon, a computing bar of units position, indexing pins including a 9 pin on the units computing bar, an actuating lever associated with the 9 pin, subtraction-setting mechanism to set said 9 pin on the units computing bar and the settable device on the tens computing bar. key-operated setting bars, means to actuate the tens computing bar to bring the settable device into effective relation with one of the key-operated setting bars and the actuating dever of the -9 pin, and means operable by said keyoperated setting bar to set one of the indexing pins on the units computing bar. said setting bar being also effective to actuate the settable device on the tens computing bar to actuate the actuating lever on the units computing bar and restore the 9? pin thereon, the units bars being also settable into efiective relation with the key-operated setting bar. the connection between the settable device on the tens bar and the actuating lever for the 9 pin on the units bar being such as to cause the actuating lever to be operated by the set-ting bar when the latter is operated and to permit the actuating lever to be operated independently of the settable device when the 9 pin is set directly by one of the setting bars. 
 29. In a computing machine. the combination of a register comprising a computing device. a plurality of settable elements on the computing device. a driving element. a projection on the latter to engage one at a time the elements on the computing device when set. and means on the computing device to guide thedriving element to insure eitective co-operation of the projection on the driving element and the element on the computing device which has been set to cooperate therewith. 
 30. In a computing machine. the combination of a register comprising a computing bar. a lateral projection on the computing bar. a driving bar for the computing bar. a co-operating projection on the driving bar. and a guide on the computing bar for said driving bar to retain the co-operating projection in its co-operative relation with the lateral projection on the computing bar. 
 31. In a computing machine. the combination of a register. a computing bar for said register. indexing devices on said computing bar, lateral projections on said indexing devices, a. driving bar adjacent to said computing bar, a co-operating device on said driving bar to engage the lateral projections of the indexing devices, a stud on said computing bar, and a head on said stud to engage the remote side of the driving bar to prevent separation of said bars when the co-operating device en ages the lateral projection of either one o the indexing devices to drive the computing bar. 
 32. In a computing machine, the combination of a plurality of computing devices, a carriage, carriage-operable mechanism for selecting said computing devices, a settable device to render said selecting mechanism effective or ineffective on one of said 'computing devices, and means to actuate said settable device. I 
 33. In a computing machine. the combination of a plurality of computing devices, 
a carriage, carriage-operable mechanism for selecting said computing devices, said selectlng mechanism comprlslng bell-cranks, a settable device to render said selecting mecha- 1 nism effective or ineffective on one of said computing devices, said settable device being associated with one of said bell-cranks to be driven thereby. and means to shift said settable device. 
 34. In a computing machine, the combination of a plurality of computing bars. indexing devices on said computing bars. a carriage, a carriage-operable denominationselecting mechanism to move the computing bars to indexing positions. and a settable device associated with one of said computing bars for rendering said denomination-selecting mechanism efiective or ineffective on the computing bar associated therewith. 
 35. In a computing machine. the combination of a plurality of computing bars, indexing devices on said computing bars, a carriage, carriage-operable denominationselecting mechanism to move the computing bars to indexing positions. said denomination-selecting mechanism comprising bellcranks and an interponent to afford a driving connection between one of said bellcranks -and the associated computing bar, and means to shift said interponent to efiective or inefiective positions. 
36. The combination of computing means, 
comprising two computing bars, settable indexing devices on said bars, a carriage, and a carriage-operable connection between said carriage and said computin bars to shift the latter to indexing positions. said connect-ion comprising settable intermediate means by which either one of said computing bars may be moved to an indexing posi- .tion when said connection is operated by the carriage. 
 37 The combination of computing means, comprising two computing bars, settable indexing devices on said bars, a carriage, a 
carriage-operable connection between said carriage and said computing bars, contact portions, one on each computing bar, to be engaged one at a time by said connection, and setting means for said connection to cause said connection to engage either one or the other of said contact portions. 
'38. The combination of three adjacent computing devices, settable elements on saizl computing devices, elements for setting said settable elements, a carriage, carria e-operable means comprising connections etween the carriage and the first and second computing devices, respectively, said connections being effective one at a time in their order, and settable means associated with the connection for said second computing device to render said second connection ineffective with the second computing device and efl'ective with the third computing-device. 
 39. The combination of computing mechanism comprising computing elements, settable devices on said computing elements through which the latter may be actuated, and means actuable by the setting of the device on one of said elements to actuate the device on the other of said elements. 
 40. The combination of computing mechanism comprising two computing bars, settable indexing devices on each bar, elements for actuating said indexing devices, and means rendered eflective by the setting of one of the devices on one of said bars to unset or retract a set device on the other computing bar. 
 41. The combination of computing mechanism comprising two computing-bars, settable indexing devices on one 0 said bars, elements for actuating said settable devices, and a lever pivoted on the other computing bar, said lever being operable by one of the setting elements to set one of said devices when the latter and the lever are brought into effective relation. 
42. The combination of computing mechanism comprising two computing bars, a- 
lever pivoted on one of said computing bars, an indexing element associated with said lever to move therewith, means to set said indexing element, a second lever pivoted on the other computing bar, means to actuate the second lever, and projections on said levers to engage each other, so that the first lever may be actuated by the second lever to withdraw or unset the indexing element. 
 43. In a computing machine, the combination of a plurality of computing bars, a carriage, indexing devices on said computing bars, denomination-selecting mechanism operable by said carriage to move the computing bars to indexing positions, a settable device associated with one of said computing bars for causing an eflective or an ineffective relation to be established between the computing bar and the denominationselecting mechanism, means to set said indexing devices, and means to restore all of said indexing devices, said last-mentioned means being also effective to restore said settable device to its normal efiective position, 
 44. The combination of computing means comprising computing bars, settable indexing devices on said bars, a carriage, a carriage operable connection between said carriage and said computing bars, settable intermediate means for moving either one or the other of said computing bars to an indexing position, and an element to restore all of the set indexing devices, said element being-also effective to restore said intermediate means to normal position. 
 45. In a combined typewriting and computing machine for addition and supplementary subtraction, the combination with decimal system mechanism, comprising nine elements for indexing, in one denomination at a time, from 1 to 9, a 9 indexing element operating fora plurality of denominations when the machine is set for subtraction, and an element for nullifying the 9-indexing for any denomination-in connection with the indexing of a digit in that denomination .while the machine is set for subtraction, of mechanism controllable by said nine elements for effecting computation in a non-decimal system. 
 HENRY L. PITMAN. Witnesses: 
CATHERINE A. NEWELL, Jame-m P. Tnomm