Calculating machine 
US-1468992-A
nan
1923-09-25
https://patents.google.com/patent/US1468992A/en
sept. `2s, 1923. 1,46s,92 
G. c. CHASE Y CALGULATING MACHINE l Filed May 12. 1922 8 Sheets-Sheet 2 Sept. 25, 1923.y 
G. c. CHASE CALCULATING MACHINE Filed nay 12, 1922 8 sheets-sheet s sept. 25, 1923.Y 1,468,992 
G. C. CHASE CALCULATING MACHINE Filed lay 12 1922 8 Sheets-Sheet 4 if f Fw@ 94] /5 7.4 4f' ./5 
ummm 
IHHIHHU Sept. 25, 1923. 
- G. c. CHASE CALCULATING MACHINE Filed May l2. 1922 8 Sheets-Sheet 5 1,468,992 Sept. 25, 1923- s,c. CHASE cALcULATINa MACHINE Filed nay 12. 1922 8 sheets-sheet 6 Sept. 25, 1923. 
G. c. CHASE CALCULATING MACHINE Filed lay l2. 1922 8 Sheets-'Shet 7 sept. 25,1923. 1,468,992 
r G. C. CHASE CALCULATING MACHINE Filed May 12. 1922 8 Sheets-Sheet 8 45, tin 
Patented Sept 25, 1923. 
a UNITED ySTATES PATENT OFFICE., 
GfEoaefEv c. CHA-SE, or scorn ORANGE, NEW JERSEY, AssIGNoR 'ro MoNaoEv CALCULAT- [ING MACHINE COMPANY, or NEW Yoan, N. Y., a conroEATIoN or NEW You CALCULIATING' MACHINE. 
Application med my 12, 1922. serial Nu. 560,959. 
. To 'all whom it may concern.' 
 -Be it known that I, GEoRGE C. CHASE, a citizen of the United States of America, resident of South Orange, in the county of Esi sex and State of New Jersey, have made a.v 
. 'to the accompanying drawings, and to letters or figures of reference marked thereon, which v form a part of this specification. 
 machine adapted for British currency or fractional calculations and also adapted for independent use for decimal calculations. Y The objects of this invention are: 
 l. The provision of an adding, subtracting,r multiplying and dividing machine embodying product wheels, varying groups of which may be brought under control of the selecting mechanism,`and providing registering mechanism embodying devices adapted to different systems of numeration, 
 2. The provision of a calculating machine as above set forth whereby any calculation involving addition, subtraction, multiplica- *'30 tion, or division of a British currency or i other fractional value, may' betop-tionally performed by either of two methods, the decimal method, or the fractional method, the latter involving the use of mixed denominators. 
 3. The provision of a machine wherein certain banks of keys may be used for both decimal and fractional calculations. i 
 4. The provision in an adding, subtract- 40. `ing, multiplying and fdividing vmachine of means for setting the machine before com'- mencing a calculationv sothat it will be adapted for British currenc or other fractional calculations, or for. a ternatively set-- the machine to accomplish the usual decimal caluculations. 
 `5. The provision of means to release all -depressed keys as machine is shifted from fractional todecimal, or from decimalv to I0 fractional registering position.` 
6. Theprovision of means whereby fractional keys not used in decimal calculations. 
 ma be locked when the carriage is shifted to li, the lowest order decimal wheel lI-d. calculating position. 
This 'invention relates to a calculating cally placing a decimal marker whenever intoY 't'. `The provision of means whereby certain ykeys not used in fractional calculations mayibc locked when the carriage -is shifted to fractional calculating position from position with the lowestorder deci-mal wheel in decimal calculating position. 
 8. The provision of meansfor preventing a fractional numeral wheel from being shifted from the control of one orderof selecting members to another. 
 -9. The provision of means which safeguard against accidental displacement of the mechanism from decimal registering position into fractional registering position` 10. The provisionof .means for; automatithemacliine is set for fractional calculations and automatically eliminating thatv decimal indication whenever the mechanism is moved out of fractional registering position. 
 11.- The provision of fractional actuating mechanism which will receive inoperative decimal registering mechanism into engagement with said fractional actuating mechanism when standing in normal position. of rest. 
 In addition to the above novel results, several constructional features of the invention will be apparent from the following specifications and claims. A sufficient description of .the operation of this machine is given at .the end of the specifications to illustrate the manner in which any calculation involving addition, subtraction, multiplica-l tion or division of a British currency` or other fractional`sum vmay be carried out by either of two methods, the decimal method or the fractional method/f It will be apparent from that-descriptionthat in some cases the fractional method is very preferable, whereas in other cases the decimal method is preferable. This machine therefore embodies for the first Ytime a construction which permits the opeiator to optionally select the method of calculation whlch will be the easiest for the solution of the problem in hand. A 
 The appendedclaims should therefore be interpreted broadlyto cover all equivalent means for accomplishing these no'vel' results. 
 The term fractional calculation isused' in this applicationas commonly understood in the art, being one involving fractlons having djerent denominatorsz as lfand j Fractions like' denominators, 'as 1, 110 
. bling and 11g, could be handled on a machine resema decimal machine and provided with a shiftable carriage. The description refers to British currency fractions` wherein four farthings amount to one penny, twelve pence amount to one Shilling, and twenty shillings amount to one pound, but it will be understood that the spirit of the invention covers an almost infinite number of other fractional combinations. 
 The invention consists in thel novel construction and combination of parts as hereinafter set forth. 
 In the accompanying drawings, illustra-ting an embodiment of the invention as applied to calculating machines of the general type and character disclosed in United States Patents (Reissue) No. 13,841; No. 1,306,606; No. 1,384,634, and application Seri'al No. 426,043: 
Figure 1 is a top plan view of the machine' as set for British currency calculations. 
 Figure 2 is a section on line 2 2 of Figure 1, showing the farthings registering mechanism. 
 Figure 3 is a detail perspective view of the farthings numeral wheel. 
 Figure 4 is a detail perspective View of the farthings selector gear. 
 Figure 5 is a section on line 5 5 of Figure 1, showing the pence registering mechanism. 
 Figure 6 is a detail perspective View of the pence numeral wheel. 
 Figure 7 is a detail perspective view o one of the pence selector gears. 
 Figure 8 is a sectional View, on line 8--8 of Figure 1, showing the ten and eleven pence keys. 
 Figure 9 is a section on line 9-9 of Fig- 1lire 8, showing the nine and eleven pence eys. 
 Figure 10 is a detail side view of a ten or eleven pence key. 4 
. Figure 114is a section on line 11-11 of Figure 1, showing mechanism'which may be used for decimal registrations or for the 4 registration of ten shillings. 
 Figure 12 is a detail perspective view of a decimal numeral wheel. 
 F igur@ 13 is a detail perspective View of the tens of shillings numeral wheel. 
 Figure 14 is a plan view of the keyboard, with the key buttons removed yand the key plate broken away to show the new key locking1 and releasing mechanism. 
 igure 15 is a section on line 15-15 of Figure 14, showing details of the mechanism for releasing and locking the farthings, pence and certain of the decimal keys. 
 Figure 16 is a section on line 16-16 of Figure 14, showing means whereby depressed keys are released when the machine is shifted from decimal to British currency position, or vice versa..v 
 Figure 17 is a front view of the carriage positioning bridge and associated parts. 
 Figure 18 is a section on line 18-18 of Figure 14, showing a rear View of the carriage `positioning bridge with its associated mechanism and the automatic 'keyboard marker. 
 Figures 19 and 20 are plan detailsof the automatic keyboard marker. 
 Figure 21 is a fragmentary perspective view of the rear portion of the machine, with casing broken away to show mechanism for placing the carriage in British currency position, also showing details of Brtish currency positioning bridge and associated parts. 
 Figure 22 is a detail side View, partly broken away, of the British currency counting wheel and associated parts. 
Figure 23 is an edge view of the same. 
 Figure 24 is a detail side view of the cam and counting finger used to drive the counti ingwheels. 
 In these drawings, Figuie 1`shows a plan view of a twenty numeral wheel calculating machine, adapted for British currency calculations as specified. This machine may be characterized as a key-set reversible crank-operated reversible numeral wheel calculator. having numeral wheels adapted to be shifted transversely relative to the keyboard or selectormechanism. The machine is adapted for performing addition in the usual manner, and is further adapted for Subtraction because the numeral'wheels are directly reversible for negative registration; for multiplication because the numeral wheels arc shiftable with relation to the selecting me hanism and because of the provision of other numeral wheels which register the multiplier; and finally, the machine is adapted for division because the numeral wheels are both shiftable and reversible-and because of the provision of numeral wheels for registering the quotient. The 'four right-hand numeral wheels are adapted for British currency calculations, or for twentieths, twelfths and fourths. 
 The farthings numeral wheel 1 (Figures 1, 2 and 3) is provided with three sets of` numerals, eachset having four figures, namely i, and 0, and has twelve gear teeth 2 and three carry tripping pins 3. The number of sets of figures and carry` tripping pins may be varied if desired. The pence numeral wheel 4 (Figures 1, 5 and 6) is provided with one set of twelve figures,lname1y the nine digits and ten, eleven and 0, and like the farthings wheel 1 has twelve teeth. This pence wheel gear is provided with one carry tripping pin 6. The units of shillings numeral wheelA 7 l(Figure 1) is provided with one Set of ten gures, namely one to nine, inclusive', and 0, and has ten gear teeth and one carr tripping pin, being precisely like the decimal numeral .wheelsll (Figure 12), except that itmay be desirable to give the figures of the unlts of shillings wheel a distinctive color. The tens of shillings wheel 8, theA fourth numeral wheel from the right (Figures 1, 11 and 13) is provided with five sets of figures, each set having two numerals, namely one and 0 and the gear of this wheel 'has' ten teeth and live carry'7 trippin pins 10. The other or higher numeral wheels 11 (Figure 12), which are located at the left of these fractional numeral wheels, are of the usual character. Whenever any of these numeral wheels arrive at 0 the next higher numeral wheel will be advanced one step, by carry mechanism as disclosed in said patents. 
The four fractional numeral wheels at y the right-hand designated 1, 4, 7 and 8, 
function only when the carriage 12 (Figure 1) is shifted'to its-extreme left-hand position which position will be hereinafter designated as British currency position or fractional position. All other positions of the carriage will be known as decimal positions. With the carriage in British currency position, the' farthings numeral wheel is in vertical alignment and functions with the farthings keys 13 (Figures 1 and 2). The pence numeral wheel4 aligns with the one t0 nine pence keys 14 (Figures 1 and 2). For convenience the ten and eleven pence keys 15 are placed in vertical alignment with the farthings keys, but operate in 'conjunction with the pence wheel 4. The units of shillings wheel 7 and the tens of shillings wheel 8 align with the units of shillings keys 16 andthe ten shillings key 17 respectively, the latter being also the first of the tens decimal keys. Whenever the carriage is located in a decimal position, the umts of shillings keys 16 and the ten shillings key 17, with the other (lockable) tens decimal keys 18, cooperate with decimal numeral wheels 11 (Figure 1). When the carriage is in British currency position, the (lockable) tens vdecimal keys 18 have no function to perform, because they arelocated in the column with the ten shillings. key, andas nineteen shillings is the maximum capacity of the shillings numeral wheelsand as the tens of shillings numeral Wheel is provided with the figures 1 .and 0 in aplurality .of sets. none of the (lockable) tens decimal keys 18 could function proper}y with the tens of shillings numeral whee 8, because if said keys 18 were functioning, .more thanl one carry Zoperation should take place from the tens of shillings wheel 8 to the next higher wheel vduring the Aperiod of one crank revolusame being true of any fractional 'keys to their normal nine, inclusive, maybe locked in their normal. (raised) osition at all times when the carriage stan s at British currency position. It is -apparent that in order to lock said keys in their normal raised position, any (lockable) tens decimal key 18 which' is in depressed position must be yfirst released, so that it may be raised by its spring,.tl1e 
 (ey which it is desirable to lock when the` carriage. is in decimal position, and to this end the following means are provided: 
Key releasing mechanism. l I 
 All of the keys of the machine are provided with springs 19 which act to raise the position, and each column of keys is provided with a universal bar 20, commonly known as a flexible keyboard lock bar (Figures 2, 5, 11, 8, 9 and 16), these bars serving to retain the keys in depressed position and being operated to release thc keys so that the latter may be. raised to normal position by theirsprings. A keyboard release bar 21, (Figures 14, 16, 2, 11 and 5) is common vto all of the bars 20 and extends at right-angles thereto, transversely of the machine, and is normally held in position at the limit of its movement to the right igure 16) by the springs 22 of the bars 20. Movement of the keyboard release bar 21 to the left will withdraw all of the bars 20 from engagement With the notches 34 of the key'stems, thereby releasing the keys, which will be raised to normal position by their springs, all as disclosed in said patents. vThe keyboard release bar 21 is disclosed in the prior art as operable from two different sources, namely by depression of the clear key 24 (Figures 14 and 1) and al: so at the end portion of the revolution of the crank handle when the appropriate devices v are set in non-repeat position. I` now add to-these two means of operating the keyboard release bar, a third means, which functions whenever thecarriage 12 is shifted to tion as decimal keys, whenever` the carriage is in the extreme left-hand decimal position. A carriage-positioning bridge 27 (Figures 21, 14, 1 and 18) is mounted rigidly on the keyboard frame and copxerateswith a carriage-positioning pin 28A ed on the carriage 12. The position of these parts is such that the carriage must` be raised to permit the carriage-positioning pin to ass from one side to the other of the bri ge, the length of the carriage-positioning bridge being suficient to hold thencarriage in its inoperative raised position while being shifted two spaces 1n either direction, to British currency position or to decimal position, as the case may be. 
This bridge also prevents the carriage from being moved by operation of the carringe-shifting knob 29 (Figure 1) to the rig t, out of British currency position, or to l5 the left, out of decimal position, since said knob is incapable of lifting the carriage suficiently to permit carriage-positioning pin 28 to clear bridge 27. Thus erroneous movement of the carria e by knob 29 is avoided, this being particu arly important during decimal calculations, when the carriage is being shifted in the well known manner. 
 Bridge 27 also provides a rigid su port for the lever 30, fulcrumed thereon 4i'gures 1, 18, 14 and 21) one arm of this lever being extended horizontally and provided on its upper edge `with oppositely inclined cams The U. S. Patent No. 1,384,634 referred to, discloses means for limiting the extent to 30 which the carriage 12 may be raised as it is 'shifted transversely, and the carriage positioning vpin 28 is thus compelled to engage with one or the other of said cams, to actuate said lever, as the carriage is shifted in one or the other direction.l The cam lever 30 has a downwardly extending arm engaging afslot of the key-releasing lever 32 (Figures 21, 14 and 16 This key-releasing lever is fulcrumed a out midway of its length to the keyboard frame, and at its forward end has engagement at 21 with the keyboard release bar 21. Therefore, whenever the carriage is shifted to or out of British currency position the key-board release bar 21 is moved to the left and all of the keys of the keyboard are released and restored to normal position by their springs. 
 This automatic releasing and locking of the keys is readily accomplished, owing to the use of the selector mechanism common to the two systems of calculation, since, were these absent, the fractional calculating Aposition of the carriage would be identical with the proper position for decimal registration in the lowest order. 
Locking mechanism for decimal keys. Y 
lock, extends the entire length of the tensdecimal xkeys (Figures 14, 15, 16 and 11), and is pivoted at itsc ends to the framin at 33, the key stem notches 34 of the tens ecimal keys two to nine, inclusive, bein engaged by said rock bar, as will be explained, to thereby lock said keys in their normal raised position. This decimal keyv lock is cut away at one end, so that it will not engage with the notch 34 of the ten shillin consisting of a lever 42 fulcrumed to the bar 39 upon stud 41 and provided with a spring 43 connected to its lower or tail arm and tending to move its upper arm to the left against a stop 44 carrie/d by an upward extension of the bar 39, said upper arm engaging a slot 45 of the forward end of movement-reversing lever V45, the latter bein fulcrumed to the framing andl the rear en thereof having an upstanding lug engaging a slot 46 of the decimal key lock 33. 
 The spring 40 normally holds the keylocking bar 39 at the limit of its movement to'theright, thereby through the connection stated holding the decimal key lock 33 in released position, out of engagement with the notches 34 of the stems ofD the (lockable) decimal keys 18, and alsothrough engagement of its projection 38 with the lever 37, normally positioning the cam edge of the upturned rear end of said lever so that it will be encountered by the carriage-positioning pin 28 whenever the carriage is shifted into British currency position. 
 The carriage being so shifted to British currency position, past the bridge 27, will thereupon fall to normal position to engage the numeral wheel gears with the intermediate gears of the machine, and at the same time the carriage-positioning in in falling will engage the cam end 36 of) result being that the decimal key lock or rock bar 33 will be moved into en agement with the notches 34 of the (locka le) tens decimal keys 18, to lock the same in normal raised position. In this operation the lever 42 acts .as a rigid extension of the keylocking bar 39, but is capable of yielding under strain aswill now be explained, in order to avoid injur to the machine, i. e., in case an (lockable tens decimal key 18 should inadvertently held depressed by the operator at the time the cam lever 8O the lever 37 and actuate said lever, the 
- insha y is operated the carriagp-positionng pin from to the reversing lever 45. The key so yin engagement wit held depressedv is no`w released by operation of the clear key 24, whereupon thevbar 33 will be operated by the lever 42, under the influence ofits s rin 43, to engage with the notches 34 -of t e ockab'le) tens decimal keys 18 and lock them in their normal raised position. 
Locking' mechanism for fractionalmkeys. The pence and farthings keys are rendered inoperative whenever the carriage is moved from Britishcurrency-to a decimal position, by lockin 'them in'their normal raised position. he ten-tooth gears of the units of shillings wheel 7 or the tens of shillings numeral wheel 8, or of the higher decimal wheels 11, may meshi with the intermediate farthings and pence driving gears 47 (Figures 2 and 5). These latter gears are shown as provided with'the same number of teeth as the intermediate gears for the decimal wheels, although .the number of teeth may be varied. Rotation pf the farthings and pence intermediate drivin gears, however, when jany numeral .wheels other than the farthings and pence numeral wheels respectively,l would lead to confusion. and it is for this reason that the pence and farthings keys are rendered inoperative when the carriagepis in i, any decimal position. L' y This lockin of the pence and farthings v keys is accomplished by the'above-described movement of the key-locking v .bar 39` vbrought about by engagement therewith of the carriage-positionin 'pin 28. 
 Two rock-bars 484 (Figure-s` 14, 15,v 16, 2 and 5) constitutin fractional key locks, are pivoted at their ends t the framing `and are movedin unison to engage the key stem notches 34 of the pence and farthings keys whenever vthe carriageis moved out of British currency yposition. The righthand bar 48 engagesl the notches of. the farthings keys and the ten and 'eleven pence keys, andthe left-.hand .bar 48 engages the notches of the one to nine pencekeys', it 
 being obvious, however, that this arrange' A ment could be varied ifdesired. The frac- ,tional key locksvor bars 48 `xn e` 'c11t away'- v l farth'ings column 'is'.shorter thanare lthe *at the forward "ends,"to"provide -"clear`anc e from thestems of the column releasekeys 35 of the farthigs and pence denominations. 
 Referring to Figure 15 it will be noted that vthe key locking bar 39 has three unstanding extensions 49, Vone of which is located closely between the "bars 48 and the other two of which are located close to the bars 48 at the outer sides thereof, so that any movement of the key-locking bar 39 in either direction will be -at once directly and positively communicated tothe bars 48. Whenever the carriage is shifted intol British currency position the bar 39. will be moved to the left and the fractional key locks 48 will be moved therewith, out of engagement with the notches34 of the pence and farthings keys (Figures 9 and 10), Per contra, whenever the carriage is shifted away from British currency position thev spring 40 will retract the bar 39 to the right and restore the engagement ,of the fractional key locks 48 with the notches 34'of the pence and farthings keys. And in the event that at this time any of these farthings or pence keys' should be in depressed position, and so held by the bar 20 engaging the key stem notches thereof, the cam lever 30 will be operated by the carriage-positioning pin 28 to release all depressed keys following the release of the key-locking bar 39 and these depressed keys will be returned to normal raised position by their springs and locked as stated, notwithstanding the friction of the key-locking bars 48vagainst the edges of said depressed keys, owing to the fact that the spring 40 is of necessity not strong enough to prevent the raising of the keys by their springs. l 
 The decimal` key lock 33 and the fractional ke construction, because of lack of space in their immediate vicinity, and in order to provide the necessary rigidity to these parts, so 
that they shall not bend when a key thatv normally underlie and brace the parts 33 and 48. 
The ten and eleven pence keys are 1olocks 48 are not of very rigid roo n cated in vertical alignment with the farthings keys, to the right of the eight and `nine pence keys (Figure 1), and in order that the ten and eleven pence key stems shall aetuate thesame selector rock-bars 75 and 76 as do the one to nine pence'keys, 
enough for the -purpose stated but are offset sufficiently so as not to interfere with the corresponding parts of the eight, and 
nine pence keys. 
The flexiblekeyboard lock-bar`20 f oiithe Automatic keyboard marker for pounds. 
 When the carriage is shifted to British currency position the keyboard marker or decimal point marker should stand between the ten shillings key 17 and the next higher column and means are provided to automatically turn up a decimal marker at the place stated whenever the carriage is so shifted to British currency position, and to automatically turn down said marker whenever the carriage is moved out of British currency position (Figures 1, 18, 19 and 20). A manually operable decimal marker 54 is located between each column of keys at the left of the pence keys except between the ten shillings key 17 and the next higher column, where there is provided a marker 56, similar to the markers 5l, and a second decimal marker 55, these two markers being adapted to overlie or underlie each other and to be turned from over or upon each other. The decimal markers 54, 55- and 56 are merely-strips of metal, dark colored on one side to merge with the keyboard color and of a contrasting or light color on the other side, and are pivotally mounted to move through an are of 180o, to expose the light colored side for a. decimal marker or the dark colored side so the color thereof will merge with the color of the keyboard. 
The decimal markers 55 and 56 (Figures 19 and 20) are provided respectively at opposite ends with aligned pivot extensions having bearings in upstanding forward and rear keyboard strips, and are also provided respectively at opposite ends each with a lateral extension pivotally engaging tbe pivot extension of the, other marker, whereby the markers pivot uponsa common axis and either marker may be moved pivotally 180o independently of the other marker. The rear end of the marker is provided with a pinion 57 meshing with a segment 58, the latter being pivoted to the framing stud 59 and having a connection with the keylocking lever 87, consisting of a horizontally reciprocatory link 61 having at one end pivotaliengagement with n, stud of said segment and at its other end (which has supporting sliding engagement with a stud 62 of the framing) having a forked or grooved upward extension 63, straddling the rear end of lever 37. A spring 64 for the link 61 normally positions the parts so that the marker 55 has its dark side uppermost. 
 'henever the carriage moves to British currencyposition and the lever 37 is actuated as has been explained, the operation of link 61 and segment 58 will act automatically to move the marker 55 one, half turn, thereby displaying the light colored side thereof. And in case the associated marker 56 shall', previous to said operation of the marker 55, have been locatedfupon marker with its light colored side uppermost, both of said markers would have been flipped over, thereby leaving the marker 55 uppermost, with its light colored side exposed.- When thc carriage is moved away from British currency position, the marker 55 will be automatically tlippedback to nonmarking position, the associated marker 56 being ,not disturbed. 
 In connection with the proper deeimalization of the keyboard, the following color scheine isvused to properly distinguish the ke s: 
 l`he farthings-keys may be of one color and all of the pence keys another color, but it seemsl desirable that the shillings keys and the pounds keys shall be of the same color, inasmuchras in decimal calculations there' is no distinction between the shillings keys and the units of pounds keys, as they'both function in the usual units, tens and hundreds orders of the decimal system. It is desirable, however, that the shillings keys shall be distinguishable, and to this end the color of the inserted value figures of the units column of shillings keys and the ten shillings key is made distinctive from the color of the inserted value figures of the keys above and at the left of the shillings keys. 
Fractional colector gear. 
 Reissue Patent No. 18,841, referred to, discloses means whereby the value of a de: pressed key may be set up on selector gears and .thereafter registered on the numeral wheels by rotation of the operating crank. The modifications necessary to ada t the' construction therein disclosed to ritish currency fractions are disclosed in co-pending application, No. 560,360, and will now be described in brief: 
 Referring to Figure 2, the farthings roekbar 65 is pivoted at 66 to the framing and has extensions 67 which are engageable by key stem cams 68. The-rear end of the farthings rock bar 65- moves the farthings selector gear 69 (Figures 1r-and 2) to the` left upon the shaft 70, and thisv gear is provided `with three teeth 71, 72, 73, of graded length or extent, whereby Vwhen the farthf ings selector gear has been moved appropriately by the i, l; or i key, one, two or nol  through gravity, and is provided at its free three teeth will be brought into position to engage with the farthings intermediate gear 47 andv advance or retract the farthin numeral wheel, according to the direction of rotation of the-operating crank 25'. 
 In the. registration of pence, the one, two and three pence keys and the pence intermediate driving gear 47 function with a duplicate of farthings selector gear 69.` There is also provided in. registerm pence aselector gear 74 (Figures 5 and: 7) provided with eight teeth of graded length or extent, four longer teeth 79 and four shorter'teeth 80. Iny t e pence order there are two pence rock-bars 75 and 76, having angular extensions 78 and 81, respectively, with one or the other or both of whichvthe different pence keys engage, by means of the key `stem cams 68 and 77 (Figure 16), to impart the proper degree of movement to the Apence selector gears. A 
 All of the other selector rock-bars, and selector gears of the machine are alike, and the latter maybe similar to the selector gears just described or to those of said patent. 
 for British currency positz'om'ng. 
 Referring to Figure 21, the carriage stop spring 82 is attached 'to the main frame`extension 83, the carriage hinge rod 84 having free pivotal and sliding movement through the'part 83 and through the coils of spring 82. A carriage detent 85 is pivotally connected at 86 with the end of the carriage housing, normally rests upon -the rod 84 arM'age release end with an arcuate or part-cylindrical eX- tension 87, partially surrounding the rod 84.l 
The free end of said detent (formed as stated) engages with the outer end of the carriage stop spring 82 whenever the carriage is shifted tothe left to extreme lefthand decimal position, in which the carriage positioning pin 28 is located adjacent to the right-hand edge of the carriage-positioning bridge 27 (Figure21.) 
In order to move the carriage further to theV left, into British-currency position, it is necessary to raise the carriage detent 85, whereupon the carriage is free to move the two steps needed, and at the end of the said two steps the carriage sto spring 82-will engage the right-hand en Vof the carriage 4housing and stop the carriage from further movement in this direction. It is obvious that the carriage detent would have a length equal 'to the said two steps of movement ofthe carriage, and that the spring 82 cushions the stop in both cases stated. 
In order to raise the carriage detent 85 out of stop position, the lever 88 is fule'rumed to a carriage frame member at 88', and has its work arm adapted for engagement b operating pin 89, working within the carriagelifting knob 90, said lever being provided with a spring` `91 normally holding the lever out of action and the operating pin in raised osition. 
 In sliifting the carriage transversely to the right or to the left from one decimal position to another or from British currency to decimal calculatingv position, the knob may be grasped-and the carriage raised slightly to disengage the numeral wheel gears from the intermediate gears of the main frame,.when the carriage may be moved as required. The carriage cannon-however, be shifted from decimal position to British currency position without operating the pin 89 to raise the detent 85 as stated. 
British currency. counter. 
4denominations, a numeral wheel 92 is provided in the carriage, vin line with the usual up er roW of counter numeral wheels (shown in eissue Patent No. 13,841),4to which it is similar except that it is, provided with peripheral'numbe'rs from one to nineteen, inclusive, and zero, and with twenty radially extending gear teeth, whereas said aligned counting wheels have nineteen teeth and are operated by the counting finger one-nineteenth of a revolution. The wheel 92 therefore has its teeth madenarrower, so that onet-wenti'eth of a rotation is imparted thereto by the same movement tof the counting finger. 
 I f the registrations exceed twenty, the rotation`of this wheel will be repeated, and it will still serve as a means of verification. If desired, however,I one or more additional counter wheels may be associated Vwith the wheel 92, and any of the well known carry mechanisms remployed to carry from one wheel to the other and thereby increase the capacity. 
Description of operation. 
lout of any British currency calculation (or a calculation in any Afractlonal system for` which the particular machine may be adapted) by either the fractional, or the decimal method. The methods here given are ,not to be considered complete, or as the best examples which might becited, as the operation of such a. machine may be developed into an elaborate art nearly as broad as the j subject of mathematics, but merely` assimple explanations for the purpose of establishing a broad basis for the claims. 
Addition and 'subtraction by fractional mechanism. 
 The use of the fractional keys for adding British currency or fractional sums follows the well-known method of operating Brit.- ish currency adding machines, which have been in general use. 
 After setting the keys, operating crank 25 is rotated forward to register the addition or backward to register asubtraction, carriage 12 remaining in its fractional position throughout the problem. 
Addition and subtraction by decimal mechanzam. 
 It is not uncommon for persons using fractional systems, such as British currency, feet, and inches, etc., to be able to convert such values into decimal equivalents at sight. For example, 24 pounds, 17 shillings, 6% pence equals 24,877. Also products and quotients frequently are obtained as decimals of British currency values. These decimal values may be of course added or Subtracted in the usual way, ignoring the fractional keys and the fractional totalizer wheels. y this method, the carriage 12 should stand in one of its decimal positions as shown in Figure 21, in order to provide suiicient keyboard capacity. 
 Suppose itis desired to carry two columns in the machine at one time, as total debits, and total credits. In registering one classification, always place carriage 12 at extreme left, and utilize the fractional numeral wheels, in alignment with the fractional keys, which are depressed to register fractional values. lVhenever an item of the other classification is to be registered, move the carriage to the extreme right and register each value in its decimal equivalent form. After the total of debits and the t0- tal of credits have been obtained, the lesser may be deducted by converting it into the .decimal equivalent, or vice Versa,`and subtracting it 'from the greater'. This method is especially desirable where it is not convenient to go through Vthe work once to obtain a total of one classification, and a second time to totalize another classification. 
 Another method of adding fractional values on the decimal mechanism will be described as applied to a feet and inches machine, based on fractions in twelfths. Vith the carriage 12 shifted toward the right, in 
will be used .to register units of feet, the' fifth, tens of feet, etc. After the feet and inches are totalized on the machine, divide the total of inches by twelve, usin-g the well known method of repeatedly subtracting 12 by adding its complement, 88. In case three columns are allowed for inches, depress one 9 key at the left of 88 in carrying out the division, if four columns are allowed, de-` press two 9 keys, etc., in order to carry over the value iu feet into the proper column.l 
This division of the total of inches to reduce it into feet need not be deferred until the column is completely totalized in case the total of inches approaches a value whereby a decimal carry over is likely to occur onto the units of feet numeral wheel, but may be resorted to at any time during the addition of the column, repeating as often as necessary, the final reduction by division being made after the entire column is totalized. By this method, fractions of any denomination other than that provided by the fractional keys may be added. or subtracted, if desired, or two columns of fractions of the denomination of the fractional keys may be carried in the machine at the same time, using the fractional numeral wheels 'and corresponding keys for. adding or subtracting fractional values with the carriage in its fractional position, and the decimal keys and decimal numeral wheels with the carriage shifted to the right in decimal position for adding or subtracting fractional values by the division reduction method just described. 
ilfultz'plz'oation by the decimal method. 
 This operation is carried out precisely as on machines not equipped with fractional keysor numeral wheels. To find the value of 327 articles at 14 pounds, 16 shillings, 3 pence each, convert the money Value `into its decimal equivalent :914.8125, either by the use of a table or mentally,'and multiply by 327 by the usual decimal method. 
 Another method of multiplying fractional values by the use of decimal mechanism of the machine exclusively greatly increases the product capacity of the machine, and enables the operator to determine at a glance whether or not the problem is within the capacity of the machine, a fact which is not easy to determine by the decimal equivalent method just given. Also the answer by this method is absolutely accurate to the smallest value, which is not apt to be true of the decimal equivalent method applied to large problems. 
This method is here applied to an 8 place y by 8 place by 16 place decimal capacity machine, as shown in Figure 1, and is illus-l trated by the following three problemsz- Problemf #1. 
Carriage at left decimal position, decimal- 361 by 145, which gives the answer: 
 s. d. 52,659-07-05 y 'Problem :#9,A s. d. Asd..- 136-14- 11 HX429= 58,665 -8--3-126 This problem is done exactl like the previous one except set decim s in lower dial. at 2, 4 and 6, then multiply 429 b' 13 and divide by 16 using complement 84, wl'iich gives 348- d. in the lower dial. Continue as above, mu tiplyin 429 by 11d., etc. The answer appears fu y in the lower dial, which reads: 
ity of the mac ine lwhen using this method exactly as outlined: 
Greater capacity may be obtained by aslight modification Problem #3. 
Proceed by the abov method until division by 20 shillings is reached, then use 20 in` stead of its complement 80 and 6-8-116 appeau,` in .the lower d-ials, with pounds in the upper. Copy G-S-U (shillings and pence) from the lower, as part of the final answer, and clear lower dials. Then bring down the pounds from the'upper dial to the lower, using the first dial as units, then multiply 99,999,999 by 99,999,999 and copy the answer in pounds, which appears `on the lower dials as 9,999,999,899,973,958. 
 Division by 20 (complement 80) is especially easy as the number of crank turns is apparent before starting to turn. The same is true of 12 (complement 88). The only other divisors areV 8 and 16, with complements 92 and 84 respectively, halves and quarters of pence being handled decimally. 
 The reversal of this method accomplishes division of fractional values. 
 The above' problem #3 sets forth clearly the almost unlimited capacity with absolute accuracy which this invention provides in' a very moderate sized decimal and fractional ply by prime num calculator as shown in Figure 1-, an achieve-v ment which is believed to be entirely new in the calculator art. That this method is wholly practical for large calculations is apparent from the fact that an operator may readily solve problem #3 in about two minutes time. 
 Fractional methods of nwltplicata'mu Many problems involving multiplication of fractional values may be worked out more readily by the use of the fractional keys and v numeral wheels than by the use of the decil mal mechanism exclusively. By the fractional method, the carriage 12 is always located in its fixed' fractional position as shown in Fi re 1. 
 To multip y a British currency value such as 1245 pounds 17 shillings 11 pence by 17, set up the money value on the pounds, shillings and pence keys, and turn the crank 17 times. The multiplier, 17, will be registered on counter wheel numbered 92. If the multiplier were 23 this counter wheel would register 3, having completed one revolution and made 3 steps over. Another method which might be utilized for somewhat larger multipliers would be as follows: 
 To multiply a. British currency sum by say 45, set it up on the fractional keys, and multiply by 9,'then clear the keys and copy the roduct dial reading to theke s and multiply by 5, which gives the pro uct of the British currenc sum by 45. To multirs, say 47, proceed as by 45, then clear ke ritish currency multipliard, and add it in twice. Or, another wa to multiply by 47, turn in the multiplican 7 times, then copy the partial product and multiply that by`7, making 49, and then subtract the first multiplicand twice. Another method df utilizing the fractional mechanism for both small and large problems of multiplication of British currency values is as follows: 
 Set up British British currency keys. If the multiplier is 136, turn crank forward'six times. Then reset keyboard to ten times its original setting and turn crank forward three times. Then reset ke board to ten times the second setting an turn crank/forward once. Persons familiar with British lcurrency calculations can give at sight, ten times anyBritish currency sum, t keys is a very sim le matter. For persons less familiar with ritish currency values, the following simple tables which show ten times any lshillings and pence value will be very helpful. It is to be noted that in setting up ten times any shillings value., the only above to multiply3 board and set upm cand in the key shillings key operated is the 10 shillings key, whereas 1n settin up ten times an pence value, the 10 shilings key setting is currency multiplicand on erefore the resetting of the l not affected, which makes this method of multiplying by 10 exceedingly simple. The reversal of this method serves for division. 
Skiiiings armi pence multiplied by 10. 
Fractional divisione b the use of the decimai mec anism. 
 British currency, or other fractional values may be divided by converting them into decimal equivalents, as in multiplication, and then performing division by the usual decimal method as is common on machines not equipped with fractional numeral Wheels and fractional keys. ,Y 
 It was also explained in connection with multiplication by the decimal method that the illustrative problems numbered 1, 2 and 3 might be worked by the reverse method to solve problems of division. 
FracviomzZ diiisimi by the use of the fractional mczanism. 
 Under the heading Fractional methods of multiplication7 it was explained that the last of these methods was reversible'for the solution of fractional division problems. Another method of division may be illustrated as follows: 
 Divide 25,367 pounds, 15 shillings, '1 penny by 23. lVith carriage 12 in fractional position, place 25,367 pounds, 15 shillings, 1 penny, on the lower numeral wheels. Then shift carriage into a decimal position, andset up the divisor 23 at the extreme right, the units of shillings keys 16 nou7 serving as units of decimal keys, and divide v23 into the pounds registered on the lower numeral Wheels, by the usual decimal method, shifting the carriage 12 one place toward the left by carriage shifting knob 29 for each digit of the quotient. This shows 1102 pounds registered in the counter' numeral wheels 93 and a remainder of 21 in the two right hand decimal numeral wheels. Now Shift the carriage to fractional position, which 'releases the divisor 23 previously set, and continue as follows: IVe are now to divide in the shillings place, but 23 shillings which is our divisor, mea-ns one pound and three shillings, so set one pound, three shillit will re ister 2, the difference between 2l) and 18. e answer thus far is ytherefore 1102 pounds, 18 shillings, which should be noted, and the counting numeral wheels 92 and 93 cleared. Clear the keyboard, and 
continue to divide in the pence order. The 
divisor 23, in pence equals 1 Shilling 11 pence, which is to be set up on the fractional keys. Again turn the crank 25'backwards until the dividend Wheels register less than the keyboard setting, which requires eleven turns, this eleven being the pence value of the quotient, so the complete answer is 1102 pounds, 18 shillings, l1 pence. 
 It is to be noted that the solution of this last problem is facilitated by the combined use of-t-hc decimal method, and thel fractional method in the one problem. 
I cla-im: 
 1. In a register capable of distinctive operation to accomplish addition, subtraction, multiplication and division respectively, numeral wheels certain of Which are marked according to one system and others according to a different system of numeraiton, selecting mechanism, and means for placing varying groups of numeral Wheels under the control of said selectino* mechanism. 
 2. In a register capable of distinctive operation to accomplish addition, subtraction, multiplication and division respectively, a transversely shiftablel carriage, vnumeral wheels mounted thereon and certain of which are marked according to one system and others according to adiiierent system of numeration, selecting mechanism, and means for shifting said cariage to place varying groups of numeral wheels under the control of said selecting mechanism. 
 3. In a multiple order calculating machine, numeral Wheels certain of which are marked according to one system and others according to a different system of numeration, selecting mechanism, and means for placing varyin groups of said numeral Wheels under t e control of said selecting mechanism. 
 4. In a multiple order calculating machine, a. transversely shiftable carriage, numeral wheels mounted thereon and certain of which are marked accordingto one system and others according to a different system of numeration, selecting mechanism including banks of denominational keys, and means for shifting the carriage to place varying groups of numeral wheels under th controlof said ke s. t 
 5. In a multipe order calculating machine, numeral Wheels certain of which are fractionally marked and others decimally mesma marked, selecting mechanism, means for. 
placing varying groups of numeral wheels under the control of said selectin mecha.- nism, and means for reventing a ractional numeral wheel from ing shi ted kfrom the control of one order of selecting members to another., 
 6. In a multi le order calculating machine, fractionalliy marked and decimally marked numeral wheels, selecting mechanism including banks of denominational keys, means for placing a decimal wheel selectively in position to coo rate with one of several banks of keys, an means for preventing a fractional wheel from cooperating with more than one bank of keys. 
7. In a multiple order calculating machine, numeral wheels certain of which are fractionally and others decimally marked, gears fixed upon said numeral wheels, driving gears normally in mesh with the numeral wheel gears, selecting mechanism including banks of fractionall marked and banks of decimally marked enominational keys, means for placing a decimal wheel selectively in position to cooperate with one of several banks of keys, means for holding the numeral wheel gears outof mesh with their ldriving gears, and means for locking the fractional keys, said means for holding or said locking means acting alternatively to prevent a fractional wheel from cooperating with more than one bank of keys. 
 8. In a multiple order calculating machine, numeral Wheels certain of which are marked according to one system and others according to a different system of numeration, and' selecting mechanism including devices related to a single order and cooperating selectively with differing numeral wheels. 
 9. In a multiple order calculating machine, a transversely shiftable carriage, numeral wheels mounted thereon and certain of which are marked according to one systcm and others according to a different systcm of numeration, selecting mechanism including banks of denominational keys, certain of said keys cooperating with diffel-ing numeral wheels in different positions of said carriage. 
 10. In a multiple order calculating machine, a transversely shiftable carriage, numeral wheels mounted thereon and certain of which are. decimally and others fractionally marked. selecting mechanism includingr devices related to a lower and to a higher order, means for shifting the carringe to change the operative relation of a decimal wheel from said lower t0 said higher order devices, and means for preventing a fractional wheel from passing from operative relation to said lower order device into o rative relation with said higher order evi. 
 11. In a multiple order calculatingA machine, a' transversely shifta'ble carriage having a projection, numeral wheels mounted onl said carriage and certain of which are decimally and others fractionally marked'. selecting mechanism including devices related'to a lower and to a higher order, 
means for shifting the carriage to change the operative relation of a decimal wheel from said lower to said higher order devices, and a member upon the frame of the machine lying in the path of movement of the carriage projection and adapted to engage the same to prevent a fractional wheel from passing from operative relation to said lower order device into operative relation 'with said higher order device. 
 12. In a multiple order calculating ma chine, a transversely shiftable carriage having a projection, numeral wheels mounted on said carriage and certain of which are decimally and others fractionally marked, gears fixed upon said numeral wheels, driving gears mounted on the frame of the machine and normally Ameshing with the numeral wheel gears, selecting mechanism including devices related to a lower and. to a higher order, means for shifting the carriage to change the operative relation of a decimal wheel from said lower to said higher order devices, and a member upon the frame of the machine lying in the path ot' movement of the carriage projection and adapted to engage the same to hold the numeral wheel gears out of mesh with the driving gears to prevent a fractional wheel from passing from operative relation to said lower order device into operative relation with said higher` order device. 
 13. In a calculating machine, registering mechanism, actuating mechanism therefor, said registering mechanism including frac-- tional numeral wheels selectively operable inan invariable position relative to theactuating mechanism and decimal wheels selectively operable in one of several positions relative to the actuating mechanism. 
 la. In a calculating machine, registering mechanism, actuating mechanism therefor. said registering mechanism including a transversely shiftable carriage, 'fractional lio tively operable in one of several shifted positions thereof, and means for keeping the fractional wheels out of operative position with relation to said actuatlng mechation occupied in the performance of tional calculations, and means for obstructing the shifting to said position during the performance of decimal calculations. 
 17. In a calculating machine, calculating devices, a transversely shiftable carriage, numeral wheels mounted thereon and certain of which are marked according to one system and others according to a different system of numeration, said carriage beingshiftable to position occupied in the performance of fractional calculations, and means for obstructing the shifting of said carriage to said position during the performance of g decimal calculations. 
 18. In a calculating machine, selecting mechanism, a transversely shiftable carriage, numeral wheels mounted `thereon and certain of which are marked according to one system and others according to a different system of numeration, said carriage being shiftable to position occu ied in the performance of fractional ca culations, means for shifting said carriage in the performance of decimal calculations,rand means for preventing the shifting of the carriage to said position by said shifting means. 
 19. In a calculating machine, calculating devices, a transversely shiftable carriage, numeral Wheels mounted thereon and 'certain of which are marked according to one system and others according to a different system of numeration, said carriage being shiftable to position occupied in the performance of fractional calculations, and mea-ns for obstructing the shifting of said carriage to said position during the performance of decimal calculations, comprising a member upon the carriage and a member .upon the frame of the machine lying in the path of movement of the carriage member. 
 20. In a calculating machine, calculating devices, a transversely shiftable carriage, numeral Wheels mounted thereon and certain of-Which are marked according to one-system and others according to a. different system of numeration, said carriage being shiftable to position occupied in the performance offractional calculations, and means for obstructing the shifting of said carriage to said position during the performance of decimal calculations, comprising a member upon the carriage and a member upon the i ing a member upon the 'carriage and a member upon the frame of the machine lying in the path of movement of the carriage member, one of said members including a yieldable cushioning element and the other member beingv pivotally movable into and out of position to engage said yieldable element. 
 22. In a calculating machine, calculating devices, a transversely shiftable carriage, numeral Wheels mounted thereon and certain of which are marked accordin to one system and others according to a Ldifferent system of numeration, said carriage being shiftable to position occupied in the performance of fractional calculations, and means for obstructing the shifting of said carriage to said position during the performance of decimal calculations, comprising a member upon the carriage and a member upon the frame of the machine lying in the path of movement of the carriage member, one of said members comprising a yieldable element adapted to cushion the carriage in its movement to said obstructed position or in its movement to fractional calculating position. 
 23. In a calculating machine, calculating devices, a transversely shiftable carriage, numeral wheels mounted thereon and certain of which are marked according to one system and others according to a different system of numeration, said carriage being -shiftable to position occupied in the performance of fractional calculations. and means for obstructing the shifting of said carriage to said position during the performance of decimal lli calculations, comprising a member upon the lll