C-qrrection mechanism for key controlled machines 
US-1742533-A
nan
1930-01-07
https://patents.google.com/patent/US1742533A/en
Jan. 7, 1930. w. s. GUBE LMANN 1,742,533 
CORRECTION MECHANISM FOR KEY CONTROLLED MACHINES Original Filed Jan. 10, 1900 5 Sheets-Sheet 1 lNvENToR. 
Jan. 7, 1930. 
 W. S. GUBELMANN CORRECTION MECHANISM FOR KEY CONTROLLED MACHINES Original Filed Jan. 10, 1900 5 Sheets sheet 2 m, Mm 
lNvgNToR. 
Jan. 7, 1930. w. s. GUBELMANN CORRECTION MECHANISM FOR KEY CONTROLLED MACHINES 5 Sheets-Sheet 3 Original Filed Jan. 10, 1900 unnnuu, 
how a! nmN NVENTOR. 
Jan- 7, 3 w. s. GUBELMANN CERRECTION MECHANISM FOR KEY CONTROLLED MACHINES Original Filed Jan. 10, 1900 5 Sherls-Sheet 4 lllllllallrll;1'IIII,pl!pIIlldll/Illlllrllll'll an,u"nnunnluuunlnnllluj, 
INVENTOR. 
aMuw 
Jan. 7, 1930. 
w. s. GUBELMANN CORRECTION MECHANISM FOR KEY CONTROLLED MACHINES Original Filed Jan. 10, 1900 5 Sheets-Sheet 5 m mnn 3m eon m3 m E on o v 2; m: n3 6 o .m mn m vn o n I a 1M m nnn an Q mvk o Pom n I 1 I n fin mm 7 on mvn Patented Jan. 7, 1930 WILLIAM S. GUBELIANN, 
6] BUFFALO, NEW YORK I v CORRECTION KECHANISM FOR KEY-CONTROLLED Cm Original application illed January 10, 1900, Serial Io. 1,004. Divided and this application filed October 88, v I 1918. Serial Io. 200,080. 
 The present invention relates to improved mechanism for effecting a correction in matter set up in key controlled machines, and is a division of my application Serial No. 1,004, 
5 filed Jan. 10, 1900, and eventuating in Patent N 0. 1,429,201 granted September 12, 1922. 
 One of the objects is to provide improved correcting means for a set of keys which controls a single set of accumulators. 
 Another object is to provide common correcting mechanism for a plurality of sets of keys each set of which controls a respective separate set of accumulators. 
 Another object is to provide improved correcting means for a set of keys controlling a set ofv printing devices, and also for a plurality of sets. of keys controlling respective sets of rinting devices. 
 Another ob ect is to provide correctin means which may operate on a plurality sets of keys or at will. upon the keys of one set without affecting the keys of another set. 
 Other objects will appear from the follow-' 25 ing descriptio n and be pointed out in the appended claims. 
 All of these objects are attained b mechanismshown in the accompanyi rawings consisting of five sheets, in whic Fig. 1 is a top plan view of m improved adding and recording machine em herein described and claimed improvements. Fig. 2 is a vertical longitudinal section of the same, taken substantially in line 22, 35 Figure 1. 
 Fig. 3 is a fragmentary sectional view showing one of the number keys and its looking mechanism. 
Fig. 4 is'a longitudinal sectional elevatlon, 
4o taken substantially in line 4-4, Figure 1, and 
showing particularly the mechanism whereby different parts of the machine may be thrown 'into and out of. gear. 
Fig. 5 is a vertical section, taken substantially in line 5-5, Figure 2. 
 Fig. 6 is a fragmentary transverse sectional elevation taken in line 66, Figure 2, and showing the mechanism for holding the keys in their depressed position and for releasing the some. 
dying the Fig. 7 is afragmentary erspective view of the key holding and relea ing mechanism. 
 Fig. 8 is a fragmentary vertical section in line 8-8, Figure 6. 
 Like reference characters refer to like parts throughout the several views, and furthermore the parts shown herein are designated by the same reference characters as the cor reiponding elements in the parent case above re erred to. 
General adding mechanism Mounted on a rod 3 in the front part of the machine is a series of accumulator dials 2, each provided with a pinion 4 adapted to be engaged by a correspond' one of a series of actuating segments 5. or governing movement of said actuating se ents there is provided a series of controlling arms 30, pivoted on a cross rod 31, each segment 5 being connected with a corresponding one of said controlling arms through lugs 46 and 50. Said segments 5 have rearwardly extending portions 6 mounted on a cross rod 7, and are shiftable forwardly and rearwardly with re-, spect to the 'controling arms for engagement with and disengagement from the respective pinions 4. Said segments are also adapted to turn about said cross rod 7 through ex tents determined by a series of key-levers 36, 37, in cooperation with the controlling arms. Each key lever 36, 37 is associated with a corresponding controlling arm 30 and normally each of said arms stands in the position shown in Fig. 2, wherein a lug 33 on said arm is en gaged by a shoulder-38 on the rear side of the arm 37 of the associated ke lever. The for ward side of arm 37 of eacli key lever is provided with a series of stop shoulders 39 for cooperation with a lug 34 on the related controlling arm, while the horizontal arm 36 of each of said key levers is adapted to extend below a correspondin row of numeral keys. When the arm 36 0 any ke lever is moved downwardly from' its norma position shown in Fig. 2, the shoulder 38 of itsarm 37 is disengaged from lug 33 of the associated controlling arm 30, and one or another of the J stop shoulders 39 of said lever is brought into cross rod 7 are thrown forwardl the path of lug 34 on said controlling arm, the particular stop shoulder 39 that is so posi tioned' dependin upon the extent of movement of the key ever. 
 The cross rod 7 above referred to is carried by rock arms 8 pivotally mounted on a shaft 9. Normally said rock arms and rod 7 are maintained rearwardly with the segments 5 disengaged from the accumulator pinions 4, by springs 11 (Fig. 4); but by turning of the operating handle 21 (Fig. 5) said segments may be engaged with said pinions. The handle 21 aforesaid is secured to one end of the shaft 20 (Figs. 2, 4, and 5), to which shaft a frame 15 (Figs. 2 and 5.) and a frame29 (Figs. 4 and 5) are attached. During the initial forward rocking of said handle 21 the frame 15, through its attached cam plate .14, acts upon a roller 18 on an arm 13' extending rearwardly from one of the rock arms 8, whereby said arms 8 and I and the actuating segments 5 areengage with the respective accumulator pinions 4. As for ward rocking of said handle 21 continues, the rear walls of notches 28 in the frames 15 and '29 come into engagement with a cross bar carried by rock arms 24 loosely mounted on shaft 20, and rock said bar 25 downwardly and forwardly. Such lowering of said bar 25 moves downwardly a cross rod 22 connected thereto and underlying the seg ments 5, and also exerts a downward pull upon springs 27 connectingsaid-bar 25 and said segments. Thereby, those segments 5 whose controlling arms 30 have been freed by operation of the key levers are moved downwardly together with their controlling arms, through extents commensurate with the setting of the key levers; and the accumulator pinions 4 are turned by said seg ments through corresponding extents whereby the amount corresponding with the set ting of said key levers is added to the sum formerly standing upon said wheels. 
 At or near the end of the forward movement of the operating handle 21, the cam 14 on frame 15 moves clear of the roller 18 on arm 13, whereupon springs 11 draw the arms 8 backwardly to their position shown in Fig. 2; thus disengaging the actuating segments 5 from the accumulator pinions. During the rearward or return rocking of handle 21, the shaft 20 and frames 15 and 29 rock rearwardly, the arms 24 are rocked to raise the lifting rod 22, and the actuators 5 and controlling arms 30 .are restored to their normal position. The cam 14 is pivotally mounted on the frame 15 and rides idly over the roller 18 during the rearward or return rocking of said frame, said cam dropping I behind said roller into its position shown in Fig. 2 at the end of said return movement. he accumulating mechanism aforesaid is described more in detail in the arent case (Patent No. 1,429,201) herein fore referred to. 
Mm'n, number key mechanism 40 represents the main keys whereby the key levers of the main registering and recording mechanism are operated, and which are guided'with their depending stems in the top 41 and bottom 42 of the key-board. As shown in the drawings, nine longitudinal columns of these keys are arranged trans- The lowest numbers of the several columns of keys" are arranged transversely in a row on the rear part of the key-board and the corresponding higher numbers of the several columns are arranged likewise in transverse rows and progressively in their order toward the front end of the key-board. 
 Each of the registering keys is yieldingly held in an elevated position by a spring 43 (Figs. 3 and 6) surrounding the stem of the key and connected at its upper end to the key and bearing with its lower end against the bottom of the key-board. The upward movement of each key is limited by a shoul de formed on the upper part of its stem .and engaging with the underside of the top of the key-board. 
 The downward movement of all of the keys is substantially the same, but the arrangement of each column of keys lengthwise of the lower actuatin arm 36 of each key lever causes the keys tobear against their lever at different distances from its pivot so that by depressing different keys the same distance, the key lever will be turned different distances. The keys having the lowest numbers bear against their respective key levers nearest the pivot and consequently the levers are thereby thrown the greatest distance, and the uppermoststop shoulders are shifted into the path of the stop lug 34 of the respective controlling arms. The tlirow of each key lever upon depressin any one of its keys is so adjusted, that the proper stop shoulder 39 on its upper arm is moved into the path of the stop lug 34 of the controlling arm, and the downward movement of the respective gear segment 5 is are .rested after having turned the adjacent dial gear pinion 4 a number of spaces correspondpressed. 
Recording mechanism Connected to each controlling arm 30 is a corresponding one of a series of type segments 141 pivotally mounted on cross rod 31 and provided-with a set of radially movable numeral type elements 142. Said type segments are movable with said controlling arms to positions determined by the depressed numeral keys 40 and bring to the printing line type corresponding to the keys depressed. After the type segments have been so positioned, and during further forward movement of the operating handle 21, hammers 147 are actuated to drive rearwardly the respective type elements 142 that are in printing position; whereby the amount set up by the numeral keys is printed on a record sheet carried by the platen 140. The means whereby said hammers 147 are actuated need not be here described, and for a more detailed description of the printing mechanism reference may be made to the parent case (Patent No. 1,429,201) aforesaid. 
. Printing of totals When it is desired to print or record the total at the foot of the column of the numbers which have been printed, the machine is operated with the total key 84 (Figs. 1 and 4) in depressed position. The means whereby this is accomplished is fully described in the parent case above referred to. For purposes of thelpresent application it may be briefly noted that depression of the total key 84'renders-the cam 14 incapable of engaging the actuating segments 5 with the accumulator pinions .4, and that when the operating lever 21 is drawn forward with said total key depressed, the key levers36, 37 (through the cooperation of feeling fingers 61 with spiral cams 57 movable with the accumulator wheels) are positioned in accordance with the amount or total standing on said wheels, and the controlling arms 30 and segments 5 are moved downwardly to position determined by said key levers. The printing segments 142 have now brought to pr nting position types representing the total aforesaid and as the operating lever is drawn further forward the hammers 147 are actuated to cause printing of said total on the record sheet. During the rearward or return movement of the operating lever, the actuatlng segments, controlling arms, and associated parts are restored to normal position. 
Olen ring on restoring to zero If it should be desired to clear or. restore to zero the accumulator wheels, the operating lever 21 is drawn forwardly with the total key 84 depressed and at the endof the forward stroke of said lever the resetting key 87 (Fig. 4) is depressed, whereby, through cord 86, the'segments 5 are drawn into mesh with the accumulator gears. Then, during the return stroke of the operating lever the segments 5 will reversely rotate the accumulator wheels through extents corresponding to the total standing thereon, so that said wheels are cleared or restored to zero. 
Word printing mechanism .For the purpose of printnig words in con junction with the items recorded there is provided a word printing segment 1411 (Figs. 1 and 5) pivoted on'rod 31 and carrying a set of word types. Said word printing segment is mounted adjacent the highest order number printing segment 141 of the main numberrecording mechanism and is connected to a controlling arm 3000. The positions to which said controlling arm and word printing segment are movable are determined by a row ofword keys 216; for which purposea key lever similar to the key levers 36, 37 is "interposed between said keys 216 and said controlling arm 3000 (the lower arm, 3600, of said key lever being shown in cross section in Fig. 6 and the upper shouldered arm 3700 thereof appearing in Fig. 1). Upon depressing a word key and then drawing forwardly the operating handle 21, said controlling arm and the connected word segment 1411 are positioned so that a type corresponding to said depressed key is brought to the printing line; and printing'from said segment is effected at the same time that printing takes place from the numeral types carried by segments 141, and in the same manner. A more complete description'of. the word printing mechanism, should such be desired, may be found in the aforesaid parent case (Patent No. 1,429,201). 
Auxiliary adding and recording mechanism ,mounted on the transverse rod 7 and are connected with controlling arms.3001. Each row of numeral keys 401 cooperates with a corresponding key lever, similar to the levers 36,. 
37, to control the positions of the respective controlling arms 3001 and actuating segments 5000. The lower arms 3601 of the key levers associated with said keys 401 are shown in Fig. 6, and the upper arms 3701 thereof in Fig. 1. The construction of.the accumulator wheels, actuating segments, key levers, printing segments 141, and cooperating elements of the auxiliary adding and recording mechanism is similar to that of the corresponding parts of the main adding and recording mechanism, except in certain particulars which are fully set forth in the parent case and with which the present application is not concerned. For the purpose of this application it will be sufficient to note that upon operating the machine by drawing forward the handle 21 the segments 5 and 5000, through shifting of the rod 7 by the cam 14, are simultaneously engaged with the respective accumulator wheels, and the segments 5000 arecaused to enter into the wheels 2000 the amount set up on keys 401 at the same time that the segments 5 enter into wheels 2 the amount set up on the keys 40; while furthermore, through the operation of the respective main and auxiliary sets of type segments 141 and coo crating parts, said amounts are concurrent y printed on the record sheet carried by platen 140. 
 By this organization of the machine, numbers such as sales or prices of goods can be added and recorded by the main registering mechanism, and other numbers, such as the rebate an sales or discount on the prices of goods can be separately added and recorded by the auxiliary registering mechanism. 
 The key controlled devices whereby the parts of the main registering and recording mechanism are shifted into the proper posi-. tion preparatory to registering and recording a number are distinct from the key controlled devices whereby the sameeilect is produced in the auxiliary registering and recording mechanism but both sets or registering and recording mechanisms are operable simultaneously by the one universal shifting mechanism for effecting the registration and recording oi numberswhich are representedby the difi 'erent positions of both key controlled oievices. 
 lhe mechanism which effects total printing from the main accumulators and the clearing of the same also 'etiectstotal printing from the auxiliary accumulators and clearing thereof, 
 For a more detailed disclosure of the auxiliary adding and recording mechanism reference may be made to the arent case (Patent No. 1,429,201) previous y referred to. 
Keyboard mechanism Thekeys which have been depressed in the operation of adding or recording a number, word or otherv character are automatically locked in a depressed position until the adding or recording operation of the particular number, word or other character has been a arranged lengthwise on the left side of the stems of each row of keys. Each of the locking plates is pivoted on its lower end to the top of the key-board bottom, so as to swing transversely and is provided along its upper edge with a number of downwardly facing catches or shoulders 328 (Fig. 3) which are adapted to engage with upwardly facing looking shoulders 329' on the stems of the keys. Each of the keys is provided with a convex face below its locking shoulder, consisting of a lower rising portion 330 which inclines upwardly and laterally from the lower part of the key toward the adjacent lockin plate, and an upper receding portion 331 w ich inclines from the upper end of the rising portion to the outer end of the locking shoulder 329 of the stem, as shown in Figure 7. Each locking plate is drawn yieldingly with its catches against the stems of the adjacent row of keys by a spring 332. The locking catches of the locking plates bear against the key stems below the convex faces thereof when the keys are in anelevated position, as shown in Figure'6I Upon depressing a ke the convex face on its stem deflects the loc ing plate and when the key has been depressed fully the respective lockin catch of the locking plate engages with t e locking shoulder 329 of the stem of the depressed key, thereby retaining the parts which are operated by said key in a shifted position. 
If a wrong key has been depressed and the operator subsequently depresses the right key the latter during the first part of its down ward movement engages the lower or rising pant330 of its convex face with the adjac lopking catch of the locking plate and is engages the respective locking catch from the locking shoulder or" the previously depressed key, thereby releasing the same. Upon cor. tinuing the depression of the second or cor rect key after the first or wrong key has been released, the preceding or upper part 331 of the convex face of the correct key engages with the adjacent locking catch of the locking plate, thereby permitting the latter to ap proach the key stem and when the correct key has been fully depressed its locking shoulder llti is carried below the locking catch of the plate and is engaged thereby, whereby the correct key is locked in a depressed position. By this means any incorrectly depressed key is automatically released by the depression of the correct key and the latter is in turn automatically locked in a depressed position. 
Automatic key release versely movable releasing bar, whereby the 3323 (Figs. 2, 4, 6 and 8) represents a transkeys of the main number registering devices are released. This bar is arranged transversely in rear of the rear ends of the locking plates of the main number. keys and is guided with its ends in the frame of the machine, as shown in Figures 6 and 8. This bar is provided with a number of upwardly projecting releasing lugs or shoulders 334, one of which is adapte to engage with the right side of a pin or projection 335 on the rear end of each locking plate of the main registering keys, as represented in Figure 6. Upon shifting the releasing bar 333 toward the left (right in Fig. 6) its releasing lugs move the main locking plates in the same direction, thereby releasing any number keys which are held in a depressed position by the same. The main releasmg bar 333 when free is shifted toward the right (left in Fig. 6) into its retracted position by the resilience of the springs which hold the main. locking'plates in their operative position. 
 The releasin bar 333 is shifted into its operative position by a releasing elbow lever 336 (Figs. 6 and 7) which turns on a pivot pins 337-and is connected with its upwardly projecting arm with the releasing bar 333 while its lower arm projects horizontally outward. 338 represents a releasing arm which is arran d lengthwise in the machine and transverse y'over the lower arm of the releasin elbow lever 336 and which is pivoted at 1ts front end on a in 339, as represented in Figures 4, 6 and 340 represents a longitudinal releasing lever connected by an upright cord 341 with the rear end of the releasing arm 338 and projecting with its rear end into the path of the cross bar 25, as represented in Fi ure 4. 
 The main num r keys are held in their depressed sition until the rocking frames 15 and 29. ave been moved forwardly sufiiciently to operate the registering and recording mechanisms in accordance with the numbers of the depressed main keys and then the cross bar 25, during the last art of its forward movement with the roc ing frames 15 and '29, engages with the releasing lever 340 and depresses the same. The releasing arm 338, during its downward movement with the releasing lever 340, engages with the lower arm of the elbow lever 336 and turns the. latterso that its upper arm moves the main releasing bar 333 toward the left and moves the main locking lates out of engagement with the main num r keys, thereby releasin the depressed main keys and permitting them to rise preparatory to setting the machine for registering and recording the next number. 
 The row of word keys 216 is arranged on the left-hand side of the main keys and the keys 401 of the auxiliary adding mechanism are arranged on the left hand side of the word keys. Each row of word andauxiliary number keys is provided with a locking mechanism similar to those of the rows of. main ke s.- The several shifting keys are arranged in a longitudinal row or column on the left side of the auxiliar keys, and the elbow levers operated there y are arranged'one behind the other, as represented in Figures 4, 6 and 7. i 
 342 represents an auxiliary releasing bar whereby the lockin plates of the auxlliary keys are released. is bar is arranged transversely of the machine, in front of and parallel with the main releasing bar 333 and is adjustably connected therewith, so that the auxiliary releasing bar can be moved into an operative or inoperative position on the main releasing bar. 
 As shown. in Figure 6, the auxiliary releasin bar is pivoted at its inner end to the main ey-releasing bar by a horizontal pivot, and its outer end projects through an opening 343 in the frame, as shown in Figure 8, which permits this bar to be manipulated by the operator from the outside of the frame. The auxiliary releasing bar is held in its raised or lowered position by means of two notches or recesses 344, 345, formed one above the other in this bar and each of which is adapted to beengaged with a in or projection 346 on the main releasing ar, as shown in Figure 8 by the resilience of the auxiliary Upon raising the auxiliary releasing bar a and. engaging its lower recess with the pin 346, the releasing lugs 347 of this bar are carried in front of the right side of the pins on the rear ends of the locking plates of the auxiliary keys, so that u on moving the main releasing bar toward t e left for releasing the main keys, the auxiliary releasin bar is simultaneously moved in the same direction and disen ages the locking lates from the auxiliary eys. Whenit is desired to re ister or record the. same number repeate y, the auxiliary releasin bar is depressed, so that its lugs 347 are elow the pins of the locking plates of the auxiliary keys, this bar being held in this position by engaging its upper recess 344 with the pin 346. Upon now depressing the auxiliary keys of the desired number and then 0 erating there 'stering and recording mec anism thei'num r repersented b the de ressed keys will be registered an recorde but these keys willnot be released. .While the depressed keys are thus held in-afi 'depressed position, the 
registering and recording mechanism can be repeatedly operated, during each of which operations the number representedby the depressed keys is added over and over again. 
The knob shown in Fig. 6 as attached to the auxiliary k'ey'releasing bar 342 may, in additionto its function of providing means for in the main and auxiliary banks together just 349 which engage with the pins 335 on the outer end in the frame. 
This movement will, of course, be transmitted to the bar 333 through the pivotal connection of the bar 342 and will result in the release of the keys in the main bank alone or as when the bars are automatically reciprocated in an operation of the machine. 
 The two columns or rows of word and shifting keys are each provided with a looking mechanism similar to the main and auxiliary keys, but the locking plates of these keys are disengaged from the stems by a separate releasing mechanism so as to permit the main and auxiliary number keys to be 5 released without releasing the word and shifting keys. 
 As shown in Figures 6 and 7, the release of the word and shifting keys is effected by a supplemental releasing bar 348 having lugs rear end of the locking plates of the word and shifting keys and which is guided at'its The inner end of the supplemental releasing bar is pivoted to 5 the upper arm of a releasing elbow lever 350. This lever is pivoted on the pin 337 and its lower arm projects toward the right and underneath the releasing arm 338 adjacent to the rear side of the lower arm of the releas- 0 in elbow lever 336. 
 en both lower arms of the releasing elbow levers 336 and 350 are arranged underneath the releasing arm 338 the depression of the latter by the rocking frames causes the 5 supplemental releasing bar to be moved toward the left so that its'lugs disengage the lockin plates of the word and shifting keys from their respective stems at the same time that the main and auxiliary releasing bars disengage the locking plates of the mam and auxiliary number keys from their respective stems, thereby releasing all of the keys simultaneously after the registering and recording of the words and numbers has been effected. V Repeat key For the purpose of permitting all the words and numbers re resented by the depressed keys to be ad ed and recorded repeatedly, the releasing elbow levers 336, 350 are shifted toward the right (left in Fig. 6) and their lower arms are moved from underneath the releasing arm 338' so that the depression of the lever'340 b the rocking frames will not effect the re easing elbow levers 336, 350, thereby retaining the keys in their shifted position and permitting of producing repeated additions and impresslons of the types which correspond to the depressed eys The releasing elbow levers 336, 350 are moved into an. operative or inoperative position b means ot a supporting elbow lever 351, as s own in Figures 4, 6 and 7. This lever is pivoted on a stationary bracket 352 and its upper arm carries the pin 337 on which the releasing elbow levers 336, 350"are pivoted. 353 represents an actuating rock lever which en ages with its rear arm against the undersi e of the lower arm of the supporting elbow lever 351. 
 354 represents a repeating shiftin key having a depending stem which is gui ed in the top and bottom of the key-board and which engages with, its lower end against the front .arm of the actuating rock lever 353. Upon depressing the repeating key, the supportmg elbow lever 351 is turned by the actuating lever in the direction for moving the releasing elbow levers 336, 350, so that their lower arms clear the releasin arm 338 and will not be affected by the. epression of the latter. 
 Upon releasing the repeating key the supporting elbow lever 353 is returned to its normal position by a spring 355, shown in Figures 4 and 6, and the releasing elbow levers 336, 350 are shifted into an operative position with their lower arms projecting underneath the releasing arm 338. The releasing elbow lever 350 is turned in the direction for moving the supplemental releasing bar 348 into its retracted position by a spring 356 which is secured to the supporting elbow lever 351. The movement of the elbow lever 350 in this direction is limited by a sto 357 on the supporting elbow lever 351, as s own in Figures 6 and 7. 
When it is desired to record the total or re-v turn the dials to zero, the number keys must all be released in order to permit the key levers nal slots 360 which receive ins or rojections 361 on the lower arms 0 the el ow levers which are operated by the total printing and zero keys, as shown in Fi re 4. The pins 361 of the total and zero eli dw levers engage normally with the front ends of their respective slots in the connecting bar 359 which causes the latter to be shifted forward by any one of the respective keys without disturbing the others. Upon moving the connecting bar 359 forwardly by the de ression of any one of the total or zero keys, t e intermediate elbow lever 358 is turned in the direction for depressing its upper arm into engagement with the ower arm of the releasing elbow lever 336, thereby. releasing all of the number keys. The depressed word keys and the shiftframes 15 and 29 have completed their for ward movement and the registering and recording of the totals have been eflected. The locking mechanism of the shifting keys is so constructed that the zero key 87 cannot be held-down by the adjacent locking plate, as shown in Figure 4, because the depressionof the same is necessary only during the backward movement of the rocking frames. Itwill, however, be evident that depression of the zero key 87 prior to operation of the machine will, through actuation of the bar 859, levers 358 and 336, and bars 333, 342, effeet the release of any depressed numeral keys 40, 4:01 (or if bar 342 be in its lower position, of depressed numeral keys 40 alone); and that upon then releasing said zero key a new numeral key set up may be made. 
I claim: 
 1. In a calculating machine having accumulating mechanism, the combination of number setting keys, for controlling the amounts to be acciunulated on said accumulating mechanism, a'total key operable to obtain a total from said accumulating mechanism, means for locking said totalkey in oper ative condition, and a key operable to release said total key from said locking means. 
 2. In a key set adding machine, the combination of a plurality of item setting keys, means for detaining any of said item setting keys in set position when set, a total key, means for detaining said total key in set position when set, and a correction key for releasing either said item setting keys from their detaining means or said total key from its detaining means and Without itself being detained in abnormal position. 
 3. In a. key-controlled machine, the combination of a plurality of keys for exercising different types of control, each of said keys being movable from normal to operative position; operatingmechanism for operating said machine according to'the control of said keys when operatively positioned and for effecting restoration of the same; and a correction key operable to effect return to normal position of any of said keys which may have been moved to operative position. 
 4. In a key controlled machine, the combination with mechanism to be controlled; of a plurality of rows of keys, each ofwhich keys is movable from normal to efit'ective position for controlling, the operation of said mechanism, a correction key which may be operated for efiecting return to normal position of any of said keys which may be in effective position; a special key movable from normal to effective position for controlling operation of said mechanism and which may, as an incident to its movement, efi'ect the return to normal positionof any key which may be in effective position in. any row of said plurality of rows of keys ;.ahd operating mechanism operable for operating the first said mechan sm accordingto the control of the operated for effecting return to normal position of any of said keys which may be in effective position; a plurality of special keys each movable from normal to efiective position for controlling operation of said mechanism, the construction and arrangement being such that the movement of one of said special keys from normal to effective position may efiect the restoration to normal position of another of said special keys which may be in effective position and as an incident to its movement may efiect the restoration to normal position of any key which may be in efiective position in said'plurality of rows of keys; and operating mechanism oper able for operating the first said mechanism according to the control of the keys of said plurality of rows of keys and according to the control of said special keys and for effecting the return to normal position of any-of the keyswhich may be in effective position .in said plurality of rows of keys. 
 6. The combination with number registering mechanism, word recording mechanism, shifting mechanism, keys for the number registering mechanism, keys for the word recording'mechanism and keys for the shifting mechanism, of a locking device whereby thenumber keys are held in theirpperative position, a locking device whereby the word and shifting keys are held in their operative position, a releasing device whereby the locking devices may be disengaged from the number, word and shifting keys, and a separate shifting device whereby the locking device of the number keys may be disengaged from these keys independently of the word keys and shifting keys releasing mechanism, substantially as set forth. 
 7. In a calculating machine having accumulating mechanism comprising a plurality of accumulators the combination of a key mechanism comprising a plurality of rows of number keys, one row'for each of a. plurality of said accumulators for controlling the extent of accumulation of the respective accumulator said key mechanism being so constructed that each of said keys is movable from normal ineffective position to efiective position to remain in effective position when moved thereto; and a shifting key for effecting return to normal ineffective position of an number key which may have been move to effective position in one. of said ing any locke rows and without said shifting key efiecting return to normal inefiective position of any number key which may have been moved to efiective position .in another of said rows. 
 8. In a calculating machine having accumulating mechanism comprising a plurality of accumulators, the combinationof a key mechanism comprising a plurality of rows of number keys, one row for each of a plurality ofsaid accumulators for controlling the extent of actuation of the respective accumulator; means -for locking any of said keys in controlling position; and a key for releasing any locked key in a plurality of said rows without releasing any locked key in another of said-rows. 
 9. In a calculating machine having accum'ulating mechanism comprising a plurality 'of accumulators, a key mechanism comprising a plurality of rows of number keys, one 
row for each of a plurality of said accumulators for controlling the extent of actuation of the respective accumulator; the come bination of means for locking any of said keys in controlling osition; and keys for releasd keys in certain of said rows without releasing any locked key in another of said rows. I 
 10. In a calculating machine comprising a plurality of separate sets of accumlators; the combination of a plurality of depressible keys for determining the items to be accumulated thereon; locking means for locking any of said keys in depressed position; and a key for effecting the release from said look ing means of any of said keys which may be detained in depressed position. 
 11. In a calculating machine comprising a plurality of separate sets of accumulators; in combination, a key mechanism comprisin aseparate set of controlling keys for eac of said sets of accumulators, said key mechanism being so constructed that each of said keys is movable from normal ineffective position to effective position to remain in effective position when moved thereto; and a shifting key for effecting the 'return to normal position of any of said controlling keys which may have been moved to effective position. I 
 12. In a calculating machine a plurality of separate sets of accumulators, in combination a separate set ofcontrolling keys for each of said sets of accumulators and correlated therewith for determining the items to be accumulated thereon, means for locking any of said controlling keys of any of said sets in controlling position, and a shifting key for releasing all locked controlling keys of all of said sets. 
 .13. In a calculating machine having a plurality of separate sets of accumulators; the combination of a key mechanism comprising a separate set of controlling keys for each of said sets of accumulators, said key mechanism being so constructed that each of said keys is movable from normal ineffective position to effective position to remain in ef fective position when moved thereto; and manipulative means operable for effecting return to normal ineffective position of all of said controlling keys which may have been moved to effective position in all of said sets and operable for effecting return to normal ineffective position of any of said controlling keys which may have been moved to effective position in one of said sets without said manipulating means effecting return to normal inefi'ective position of any of said controlling keys which may have been moved to effective position in another of said sets. I 
 14. In a calculating machine having a plu rality of separate sets of accumulators; in combination, a key mechanism comprising a separate set of controlling keys for each of said sets of accumulators, said key mechanism being so constructed that each of said keys is movable from normal ineffective position to effective position to remain ineffective position when moved thereto; a shifting key for effecting the return to normal position of any of said controlling keys which may have been moved to effective position in any of said sets of keys; and means for rendering said shifting key inefiective with relation to certain of said controlling keys. 
 15. In a key mechanism operable for controlling a plurality of mechanisms, the combination with a common .operatin device for operating said plurality of mec anisms; of a plurality ofsets of settable keys, one set of keys for each mechanism of a plurality of said mechanisms for controlling operation by said operating device of the respective one of said plurality of mechanisms, each of said sets of keys being capable of controlling only one of said mechanisms; and a universal correction key for effecting the return to normal position of any of said keys which may be in effective position. 
 16. In a key mechanism operable for controlling a plurality of mechanisms, the combination with an operating device common to and for operating said plurality of mechanisms; of a plurality of groups of rows of settable keys, one group of rows of keys for each mechanism of a plurality of said mechanisms for controlling operation by said operating device of the respective one of said plurality of mechanisms, each of said groups of rows of keys being capable of controlling only its respective one of said mechanisms and a. correction key which may be operated to effect the return to normal osition of any of said keys which may-have been moved to efi'ective position in one of said groups of rows of keys and without effecting return to normal position of any of said keys which may have been moved to efiective position in another of said groups of rows of keys. 
 17. In a key mechanism operable for controlling a plurality of mechanisms, the combination with an operatin device common to and for operating said p urality of mechanisms, of a plurality of sets of settable keys, one set of keys for each mechanism of a plurality of said mechanisms for controlling opera'ionby said operating device of the respective one of said plurality of mecha nisms, each of said sets of keys being capable of controlling only its respective one of said mechanisms; a universal correction key operable for eifecting the return to normal position of any-of said keys which may be in effective position; and means for modifying the control exercised by said correction key so that said correction key when operated will effect the return to normal position'of any of said keys which may have been moved to effective position in one of said sets of keys and without effecting return to normal position of any of said keys which may have been moved to effective position in another of said sets of keys. 
 18. In a key mechanism operable for 'controlling a plurality of mechanisms, the combination with an operating device common to and for operatin said p urality of mechanisms; of a plura ity of sets of settable keys, one set of ke s for each mechanism of a lurality of said mechanisms for control ing operation by said operating device of the respective one of said plurallty of mechanisms, each of said sets of keys being capable of controlling only its respective one of said me'chanisms; a special key movable from normal to effective position for effecting the return to normal position of any keys which may be in operative position in any of a plurality of said sets of keys; and a device cooperative with said operating dev1ce for effecting the return to normal osition of any of the keys whichmay be in e ective positlon in said plurality of sets of keys. 
 19. In a ,key mechanism operable for controlling a plurality of mechanisms, the combination with an operating device common to said plurality of mechanisms for operating the same; of'a )lurality of sets of settable keys, one set of keys for each mechanism of a plurality of said mechanisms for controlling operation by said operating dev1ce of the respective one of said plurality of mechanisms, each of said sets of keys being ca able of contro ling only its respective one 0 said mechanisms; a plurality of devices one for each set of a plurality of said sets of keys and operable to effect restoration of any of said keys which may be in effective position in its respective set of keys; and a special kev movable from normal to effective positidn, the construction and arrangement being such that the movement of said special key from normal to effective position may effect operation of a plurality of saiddevices and thereby efl'ect restoration to nor: 
mal position of any of said keys which may operation by said operating device of the respective one of said plurality of mechanisms, each of said sets of keys being capable of controlling only its respective one of said mechanisms and a plurality of special keys each movable from normal to eflective position whereby restoration of any of said keys which may be in effective position in any of said plurality of sets of keys may be effected. 
 21. In a key mechanism operable for controlling a plurality of mechanisms, the combination with an operating device common to and for operating said plurality of mechanisms; of a plurality of sets of settable keys, one set of keys for each mechanism of the plurality of said mechanisms, the keys of each of said sets being movable for controlling operation by said operating device of the only respective one of said plurality of mechanisms, a plurality of s ecial keys each movable from normalto eEective position whereby the return to normal osition of any of the keys which may be in e ective position in an o a plurality of said sets of keys may be e ected; and a universal device co-operative with said operating device for effecting the return to normal position of any of the keys of said plurality of sets of keys and of said plurality of special keys which may be, 
in effective position. 
 22. The combination of a plurality of interrelated sets of main printing. types; a separate plurality of interrelated sets of auxiliary rmting types; a plurality of keys each mova le from normal to operative position for sett ng up the matter to be printed by said main printing types; a plurality of keys each movable from normal to operative position for setting up the matter to be printed by said auxiliary types; a correction key for returning any of said keys from operative to normal position; and an operating-mechamsm operable at a single operation to efiect printing by said main and said auxiliary types according to the setting of the respective pluralities of keys. 
 23. The combination of a plurality of groups of rows of setting keys, means individual to each of said rows for detaining the groups of rows from their detaining means, a 
device for releasing the keys of a second of said groups of rows from their detaining means, and a common means operable for operating both of said releasing devices. 
 24. In a key mechanism, the combination of a plurality of rows of keys, means whereby the movement to operative position of any one of said keys effects the return to normal position of any other key of the same row which is in operative position; and a correction key which may be operated for effecting the return to normal position of any key which may be in operatlve position in one of said rows and without effecting the return to normal positionof any operatively positioned key in another of said rows. 
 25. In a key mechanism, the combination of a plurality of series of keys, each of which keys can be moved from normal to operative position without effecting 'movement of any other key of the same series which is not in o erative position, the lines of movement of a of said keys being parallel; and a correction key which may be moved in a line parallel with the lines of movement of keys of said plurality of series of keys, for effecting the return to normal position of any key which may be in operative position in one of said series and without effecting the return to normal position of any operatively positioned key in another of said series. 
 26. In a key mechanism, the combination of a lurality of controlling keys each movable From normal to effective position, means for locking any of said controlling keys in effective osition when moved thereto, and a special ey movable from normal to effective osition and means for retaining said special key in effective position, the construction and arrangement being such that the movement of said special key, from normal to effective position may effect the release from said means of an of said controlling'keys which may be in e ectivefposition and that any of said controlling keys may be moved from normal to effective position without effecting anymaterial movement of said special key. 
 27. In a key mechanism, the combination of a plurality of series of setting keys, means individual to each of said series of keys for detaining the keys'thereof in set position when set, a releasing device for causing said means to release all detained keys of said plurality of series, and a settable manipulative member which may be set and thereupon automatu cally remains in set position and which may efiect o eration of said releasing device as an inci cut to its setting. 
 28. In a key mechamsm, the combination of a lurality of controlling keys each movable rom normal to effective position; a special key movable from normal to effective 0- sition, the construction and arrangement eing such that the movement of said special kfiy from normal to effective position may e '00 t restoration to normal position of any of said controlling keys which may be in effective osition, and that any of said controlling eys may be moved from normal to effective position without effecting any material movement of said special key; and means common to said. special key and said controlling keys for effecting restoration ,to normal position of any of said keys which may have been moved to effective position. 
 29. In a key mechanism, the combination of key locking mechanism; a plurality of controlling keys each movable from normal to effective position and adapted to be detained by said key locking mechanism in effecting position when moved thereto; a special key movable from normal to effective position and adapted to be detained by said key looking mechanism in effective position when moved thereto, the construction and arrangement being such that the movement of said special key from normal to effective position may effect the release from said ke locking mechanism of any of said controlfing keys which may be in effective position and that any of said controlling keys may be moved from normal to effective position without effecting the release from said key locking mechanism of said special key; and means common to said special key and said controlling keys for effecting the release from said locking means of any of said keys which may be detained in effective position. 
 30. In a key mechanism, the combination of a plurality of controlling keys each movable from normal to effective position, and special manipulative means movable from normal to effective position, the construction and arrangement being such that said controlling keys automatically remain in effective position if moved thereto while said special mani ulative means is in normaLposition, and t at said special manipulative means when moved to effective position auto matically remains in effective position and may render said controlling keys incapable of I automatically remaining in effective osition. 
 31. In a key mechanism, the com ination of a plurality of controlling keys each movable from normal to effective position; and a plurality of special keys each movable from normal toeffective position, the construction and arrangement being such that the movement of any of said special keys from normal ing means for detaining any of said keys in effective position when moved thereto; and a plurality of special keys each movable from normal to effective position, the construction and arrangement being such that the movement of any of said special keys from normal to effective position may effect the release of any detained controlling key from said locking means and that any of said controlling keys may be moved from normal to effective position without effecting anymaterial movement of any of said special keys which may be in effective position. 
 33. A key mechanism comprising a plurality of sets of keys, a detaining device for each of a plurality of said sets of keys for detaining the keys thereof in set position, a releasing device for operating a plurality of said detaining devices to release any keys detained thereby, a member connected with said releasing device, and a plurality of key levers all connected to said member and each operable by a respective key for operating said member and said releasing device with out operating another of said key levers. 
 34. In a key controlled machine, the 'com bination of a plurality'of rows of (ontrolling keys, a separate locking device for each of said rows of keys, a releasing device common to a plurality of said loeking'devices for releasing any keys locked thereby, an operating mechanism operable for effecting operation of said releasing device, and means whereby a plurality of keys of one of said plurality of rows may operate said releasing device and thereby release any detained key of anylof a plurality of said rows of keys from the respective locking device. 
35. In a key mechanism, the combination 'of a plurality of rows" of controlling keys, 
each of said keys being movable from normal to operative position; a row of shifting keys, each of said shifting keys being movable from normal to operative position; and means whereby the moving of any one of a plurality of keys of one of said rows from normal to operative position will effect the return to normal position of any key which may be in operative position in another of said rows. 36. In a key mechanism, the combination of two rows of keys, each of said keys being movable from normal to effective position; two detaining devices, one for each of said rows of keys and each operable for detaining in effective position any of said keys moved to effective position in its respective row; and means whereby the movement to effective position of any one of a plurality of the keys of one of said rows may release any key which may be detained in effective position in the other of said rows. 
 3.7. In a key mechanism, the combination of a plurality of rows of keys, each of said keys being movable from normal to effective position; and means whereby the movement of any of a plurality of keys of one of said rows of keys effects the return to normal position of any other of the keys which is in effective position in the same row and may effect the return to normal position of any effectively positioned key in any of a plurality of other rows of keys. 
 38. In a key mechanism, the combination of a plurality of rows of keys, each key of a pluralit of keys of each of said rows being mova le from normal to effective position, means whereby the movement of any one of the keys of a plurality of the keys of any one of a plurality of said rows effects the return to normal position of any other effectivel positioned key of a plurality of keys of the same row and means whereby the movement to effective position of any one of a plurality of keys of one of said rows effects the return to normal position of any key which may have been in effective position in any of a plurality of said rows. 
 39. In a calculating machine, a frame, a key, a locking member for holding the key in a predetermined position a movable bar for forcing the locking member from operative position, a vertically reciprocating key for moving the bar in one direction, means for moving the bar in the opposite direction, and a bell-crank lever pivoted to the frame and having its ends respectively connected to the key and the bar for transmitting motion from one to the other, substantially as and for the purpose set forth. 
 40. In a cash register the combination with a totalizer; of a series of amount determining manipulative devices carrying projections; a special manipulative device carrying a projection; a pivoted member; locking elements carried by said pivoted member and adapted to engage the projections on said amount determining devices and lock the same from, movement; and a member projecting from said pivoted member adapted to be engaged by the projection on said special manipulative device and so constructed that operation of said special manipulative device takes the locking elements out of engagement with the projecttions on the amount determining manipulative devices. 
 41. In a calculating machine, a plurality of rows of ke s, means for each row for re taining any ey in that row in depressed position for a plurality of operations of the machine and whereby depression of any key in said row will operate a retaining means to release a previously depressed key in said row, and universal means cooperating with the retaining means for a plurality of rows of keys for effecting release of depressed keys in such rows when the machine is not belng operated. 
series of accumulating wheels, a series of tuators, 'one for each wheel, and a series -iof rows of depressible keys, one row to control the extent of movement of each actuator, the combination of means for holdingany key depressed in each of a plurality of rows and a single controlling means for manually releasing the depressed keys in all or a portion of the rows at will. 
 43. In a calculating machine, the combination of a series of rows of depressible amount keys, means for retaining any of the keys when depressed, means for automatically releasing all of the depressed keys on an operation of the machine, and a control ling knob for rendering said automatic releasing means inetlective as to a portion of the rows of keys, said knob being adapted for operation to manually release all or a portion of thedepressed keys at will. 
 44. In a calculating machine having a plurality of sets of accumulators, the combination of a plurality of sets of settable number keys, one set of keys for each set of a plurality of said sets of accumulators, universal operating mechanism for effecting an accumulation by each set of a plurality of said sets of accumulators according to the control of the respective sets of number keys, a total key mechanism co-operative with said operating mechanism; a.correction key, and a key release operable by said correction key, said operating mechanism, and saidtotal key mechanism Without aid from said operating mechanism. 
 45. In a calculating machine a key board comprising a plurality of rows of keys, a plurality of locking devices, one looking device for each row of a plurality of said rows of keys for locking in a depressed position any key ofthe respective row when such key is depressed and each of said devices being operable by the depression of any key of its respective row to release any previously depressed keyof the same row; a universal operating mechanism adapted to operate a set of devices to release all of said keys which may have been depressed, means for renderin said universal operatin mechanism ine ective with relation to said devices and means for operating said devices to release depressed keys when the I machine is not being operated. 
 46. In a calculating machine having an accumulating mechanism comprising a plurality' of accumulators, a key mechanism comprising a plurality of rows of number keys, means for locking any of said keys in actuated position, an operating mechanism for causing release of said keys from said locking means and a correction key for releasing any locked key in one of said rows without releasing any locked key in another of said rows. 
 47. In a calculating machine, the combination of a plurality of rows of settable elements, means for retaining said elements in incense said position, a total ke a key for releasing any said element rom said retaining means whereby an incorrect setting of said elements may be destroyed and means controlled by said total key for causing the releaseof any said elements from said detaining means, whereby interference by said elements with the taking of a total is prevented. 
 48. In a calculating machine, the combination of a plurality of rows of settable elements, means for retaining said elements in said position, a total key and a ke separate. 
from said total kc and mounted or sliding movement, each 0 said keys operating upon said retaining means for effecting restoration to normal positions to any of said elements that may be set. 
WILLIAM S. GUBELMANN. 
CERTIFICATE OF CORRECTION. 
Patent N0.1 ,742,533- Granted January 7 1930, to 
 WILLIAM S. GUBELMANN. 
It is hereby certified that error appears in the printed specification of the I above numbered patent requiring correction as follows: Page 9, line 96, claim 2l, for the words "the only" read "only the"; and that the said Letters Patent should be read with this correction therein that the same may conform to the record of the case in the Patent Office. 
Signed and sealed this 25th day of March, A. D. 1930. 
. M. J. Moore, (Seal) Acting Commissioner of Patents. 
CERTIFICATE OF CORRECTION. 
Patent No. 1,742,533. I Granted January 7, i930, to 
 WILLIAM s. GUBELMANN. 
 It is hereby certified that error appears in the printed specification of the above numbered patent requiring correction as follows: Page 9, line 96, claim 21, for the words "the only" read "only the"; and that the said Letters Patent should be read with this correction therein that the same may conform to the record of the case in the Patent Office. 1' 
Signed and sealed this 25th day of March, A. D. 1930. 
p M. J. Moore, (Seal) Acting Commissioner of Patents.