Counting mechanism carriage for 
US-2089770-A
nan
1937-08-10
https://patents.google.com/patent/US2089770A/en
Aug. 10, 1937. H. SUTER Er AL 2,089,770 
COUNTING MECHANISM CARRIAGE FOR CALCULATING MACHINES FiledOct. 27, 1933 4 Sheets-Sheet l Aug. 10, 1937; H. SUTER ET AL COUNTING MECHANISM CARRIAGE FOR CALCULATING MACHINES Filed Oct. 27, 1933 4 Sheetsr-Sheet 2 I Eu J R Q U a l f J 9 W 4 m wax 4 12 l .5 4 m .\.I.. m 2. m m $2M a 4/ M am 0 5 W H fi o aw 2 1 7 a; wkw awe/M o W u r; w V 3 5 )Vwgm Aug. 10, 193?. H. SUTER EIAL COUNTING MECHANISM CARRIAGE FOR CALCULATING MACHINES 4 Sheets-Sheet 5 Filed Oct. 27, 1933 1720?]? 30/15.- )VWM Jm Aug. 10, 1937. H. SUTER ET AL 2,089,770 
COUNTING MECHANISM CARRIAGE FOR CALCULATING MACHINES Filed Oct. 27, 1933 4 Sheets-Sheet 4 Patented Aug; 10, 1937 UNITED STATES COUNTING MECHANISM CARRIAGE FOR CALCULATING MACHINES Heinrich Suter and Alfred Grasshoff, Zurich, Switzerland, assignorsto firm H. W. Egli A.-G., 
Zurich, Switzerland Application October 27, 1933, Serial No. 695,522 In Germany November 5, 1932 23 Claims. 
 This invention relates to calculating machines. The known calculating machines the counting mechanism carriage of which, with a view to economizing space, projects in its initial position beyond the left side of the machine have the drawback that no provision is made for transferring the tens up to the last digit wheel for indicating the highest result indicating numeral concurrently, as the tens transfer device of the machine cooperates only with a main group of result indicator digit wheels provided within the machine frame and beginning with the lowest result indicating numeral. In consequence of this discontinuity in the operation of transferring the tens. the operator of the machine is obliged to wait for the bell signal in order. to be enabled to subsequently execute the additional tens feed by hand, provided that the machine is of a type to permit this. Otherwise the operator must s keep the respective number tobe added to the result as indicated by the machine in his memory which is apt to cause errors of calculation. 
 According to the present invention this drawback is eliminated in the machine by providing in the counting mechanism carriage a series of auxiliary tens transfer wheels which are adapted for effecting the additional tens transfer operation mechanically and by providing coupling means traveling together with said auxiliary wheel series for setting the same and permitting of connecting certain auxiliary tens transfer wheels temporarily to the highest main digit wheel setting unit of the correlated main tens transfer device, as required by the calculation to be carried out, thus affording an uninterrupted mechanical tens transfer operation. 4 
 In the accompanying drawings the invention is illustratively exemplified by three embodiments in which Fig. 1 shows a vertical section of a first embodiment of the invention taken on the line l-'-l in Fig. 2; 
' Fig. 2 shows a plan view of Fig. 1; 
 Fig. 3 represents a partial sectional front ele- 4 vation; 
 Fig. 4 is a fragmentary section'similar to Fig. 1, but taken along the line IV--IV in Fig. 2, and showing certain movable members in different positions; 50 Fig. 4a. is a section on the line IVa-IVa in Fig. 
Cal 
Fig. 9 is a view of a further detail; 
 Fig. 10 shows a fragmentary sectional plan view; 
 Fig. 11 is a perspective elevational view of a second embodiment; 
Fig. 12 shows a cross sectional view of Fig. 11; 
 Fig. 13 shows a perspective view of a third embodiment; 
 Fig. 14 shows a cross sectional view of Fig. 13, and 
Fig. 15 is a view of a detail. 
 In all three embodiments, the invention is assumed to be applied to a calculating machine in+ eluding, in a known manner, cylinders about the circumference of which teeth of graduated lengths are arranged, only the parts of the machine being shown which are necessary for a proper understanding of the invention. 
 In the first embodiment of the invention, as shown in the Figs. 1 to 10, i denotes the frame of the machine which is encased by a wall 2, the machine comprising a counting mechanism carriage 3 and a key board 4 (Figs. 1 and 2) for the setting mechanism. To each row of setting keys 4 carrying the numerals 1 to 9, two setting bars 5 and 6 (Fig. 1) are correlated, the bar 5 being operable by the keys carrying the numerals "1 to 5 and the bar 6 by the keys carrying the numerals 6 to 9". To this end, the spring influenced keys 4 each carries a lateral stud 1 "adapting the keys to cooperate with 9. corresponding inclined face of the bars 5 and 6 respectively. The bars 5 and 6 are held by guides 8, and two swing supports 9 and H) are connected with each bar. To the swing support ill, a tension spring I l is attached which tends to retract this bar into zero position. Each pair of bars 5 and 6 serves for axially displacing two driving gear wheels I2 and I3, the former being coupled to the bar'5 and the latter to the bar 6. The driving gear wheels [2 and I3 are' carried in pairs on common square shafts H, and each pair is adapted to cooperate with a cylinder I5 having circumferential teeth of graduated lengths which are divided in two separate axial groups, one of these groups being associated with the driving gear wheel l2, and 
thus with the numerals adapted to be set up by the bar 5, respectively, whereas the other group is associated with the driving gear wheel I3, and thus with the numerals adapted'to be set up by the bar 6 (Fig. 9). By correlating two setting bars 5 and'ii to each other as well as two driving gear wheels l2 and I3, for cooperation with a cylinder lihaving circumferential teeth of graduated lengths, the advantage of shortening the travel of the individual setting bar as well as that of the driving gear wheel is obtained. The drive of the main shaft I 6 is derived from an electric motor (not shown), this shaft actuating in turn 5 the respective cylinder |5 at the individual rows of keys by means of bevel gear drives I1, I 8. 
 Thus, if any one of the two driving gear wheels l2 and I3 engages with the toothed portions of the cylinder 5, the square shaft I4 is correspond- 10 ingly turned. The square shaft I4 in turn cooperates, in a known manner, when connected by means of a reversing gear drive I9, 20, with a digit wheel 2| of the result indicating mechanism provided on the counting mechanism carriage 3. 15 a By 22, the operating lever for the displaceable part it carried by" the square shaft It of the reversing gear is designated and by 23 a lever which belongs to a known main tens transfer device, for example as disclosed in the U. S. A. Patent 20 specification No. 1,900,776, which device includes ten digit wheel setting units for setting ten consecutive result indicator digit wheels 2| (Fig. 2). 2% denotes the correlated tens feed shaft carrying a control disc 25 for each setting lever 26 of 25 each individual setting unit 26, 26 f the main tens transfer device, these levers each being adapted to cooperate with a gear wheel 26 which is axially displaceably arranged on the correlated square shaft Id, for preparing for the tens trans- 3i) fer operation to take place, that is, effecting preliminary operations therefor. 
 To all the individual digit wheels 2| of the set of sixteen such wheels, in a known manner, a turn button 2? and a driving wheel 28 arranged on the counting mechanism carriage 3 are correlated. This set of result indicator digit wheels 2| thus comprises a main group of ten wheels 1 to and a group of additional wheels. 2| including the wheels 11 to 16 as illustrated for 40 the three embodiments of the invention shown in the drawings. It will, however, be understood that any number of wheels 2| may be provided in the complete set and the set may be subdivided at any convenient point for the main and the 45 additional wheel group each to include as many wheels of the set as required. In the present instance, the main wheel group beginning with the lowest result indicating numeral 1 ends with the intermediate result indicating numeral 10, where- 50 as the group of additional digit wheels 2| begins with the indicating numeral next higher to the latter, thus the numeral 11, and ends with the highest result indicating numeral 16. 
The digit wheels 2| of the additional wheel 55 group inclusive of that displaying the tenth result indicating numeral are arranged on extended square shafts 29. These extended square shafts 29 are mounted at one end in a rail 30 of angular cross section and at the other end in a rib 3| on 0 the carriage 3, a tens transfer wheel 32 being mounted on each of these extended shafts 29 by means of a hub 33 (Fig. 5). As the tens transfer wheel 32 mounted on the shaft 29 of the tenth. 
 digit wheel 2| is actuated in the initial position 65 of the carriage 3 by the highest, that is, the tenth digit wheel setting unit without the aid of any further coupling means, this wheel 32 will be. 
hereinafter referred to as the special tens transfer wheel, whereas the wheels 32 allotted to the 70 additional digit wheels 2| will be called auxiliary tens transfer wheels. The individual tens transfer wheel 32 is coupled to an adjusting slide 35 by a driving element in the form of a stud 34 engaging in an annular groove of the wheel 75 hub 33. 
' end portions of a slot 38 in the counting carriage The slide 35 is influenced by a tension spring 36 which is attached to a pin 31 on the slide and which tends to hold the latter in retracted position, wherein the pin 31 bears against one of the casing wall 2 of the machine frame l, a cam rail 30 is provided (Fig. 2) the one end of which is formed with an inclined ascending face ii, for cooperation with the slides 35 during the displacements of the counting mechanism carriage 3 from the initial position of the same. On one side of each individual tens transfer wheel 32, a feed disc 52 having a gap 53 in its circumference is arranged (Figs. 5 and 6) which is situated between the teeth of the wheel 32 which correspond to the numerals l and 5, as will be seen in Fig. 6. To each wheel of the series of the seven tens transfer wheels 32, a member of a mating series of feed members 643 to 56 (Fig; 8) is correlated. The feed members it to 50 are secured to a common hollow mounting shaft 5| (Fig. 3) which is longitudinally displaceably arranged on an axle 52 which is mounted in the counting mechanism carriage 3 by means of brackets 53. With the hollow shaft 5|, a setting member in the form of a stirrup 54 is combined in' such manner that the stirrup shares in the longitudinal displacements of this shaft, but is kept from rotating together with the same by an upper stud 55 of the stirrup 54 engaging in a longitudinal groove in the mounting rib 3|. As 
is evident from Fig. 3, the outermost feed member 50 to the left is influenced by a torsion spring 56 the other end of which is connected to the stirrup 54, thereby influencing the hollow shaft 5| in one sense of rotation. 
The yoke of the stirrup 54 is provided with lowersetting elements in the form of pins 51 each situated in a plane between adjacent tens transfer wheels 32. A control lever 58 (Figs. 4 and 7) cooperates with the pins 51 of the stirrup 54, this lever being provided for this purpose with a forked end (Fig. 4) formed with terminal recesses 59 and 60 provided in the two arms of the fork that are disposed above each other respectively' (Fig. 7). These two terminal recesses 59 and 60 on the control lever 58 are provided with inclined ascending faces and are.offset rela tively to each other as regards the vertical directlon, the recess 59 being intended for cooperation with the pins 51 on the stirrup 54, when the 0 machine is used for adding, and the recess 60, when it ,is used for subtracting. The control lever 58 is coupled to a spring pressed key 6| which is displaceably guided by a bolt 62, and also connected with an auxiliary lever 63. The auxiliary lever 63 is urged, by means of a guide roller 65, on a cam disc 66"carried on the main shaft l6 of the machine. 
The feed members 44 to 50 arranged on the hollow shaft 5| are each provided with two arms, 70 I the corresponding arms of one set of arms being of similar shape, whereas the arms of the other set differ from one member to the other. While the depending arms of the feed members 44 to 50, when viewed longitudinally of the hollow shaft 5|, are in registry, the arms of the other set have upper radial edges (Fig. 8) that are circumferentially offset relatively to each other, the entirety of these radial edges being stepped 5 up to form a helix about the hollow shaft 5|. The feed members 44 to 5|] are influenced by the torsion spring 56, so that their depending arms are urged in the direction towards a stop rail 61. This stop rail 61 is connected to the ends of sup- 10 ports 69 arranged on a shaft 68, the support 69 shown in Fig. 4 being provided with a lower projecting arm carrying a roller 10 which is urged under the influence of a tension spring 1|, acting on this support, on a cam disc I2 provided on the tens transfer shaft 24. 
 When the counting mechanism carriage 3 occupies its initial position by projecting to the left as shown in Fig. 2, the main tens transfer device is adapted to be effective up to the tenth digit wheel. Assuming now that the counting mechanism carriage be set to zero position and that the key of the extreme row of keys to the right carrying the numeral 1" be depressed and the. 
 machine adjusted for subtraction. Then during the next following rotation of the main shaft I6, 
 the tens transfer operation as now being prepared for by action of the shaft 24, is not interrupted at the tenth digit wheel,'i. e. the highest setting unit of the main tens transfer device, but rather amplified due to auxiliary means being provided, as will be hereinafter explained. 
 While setting the machine for subtraction, also the key 6| had been depressed, so that the control lever 58, on being advanced towards the stirrup 54 by action of cam disc 66 and auxiliary lever 63, moves the terminal recess 60 on the lower arm of its forked end into engagement with that driving pin 51 of the said stirrup which is disposed on the extreme right side in Fig. 3. 
 During this engaging movement, the stirrup 54 and the hollow shaft 5| together with the feed members 44 to 50 are conjointly displaced slightly to the right in Figure 3, due to the terminal recess 60 being correspondingly shaped, whereafter each feed member is juxtaposed to the gap 43 of the feed disc 42 of the tens transfer wheel 32 correlated to the respective feed member. 
 During the rotation of the tens transfer shaft 24 of the main tens transfer device taking place in the direction of the arrow at in Fig. 4, the spring pressed support. performs at a certain time a rocking movement together with the stop rail 61 in the direction of the arrow b shown in this figure. This rocking movement of the stop rail 61 is followed by corresponding rocking movements of the feed members 44 to in the direction of the arrow 0 in Fig. 4 in accordance with the rotational movement of the hollow shaft related thereto. The engagement of the feed members '44 to 50 with the gaps 43 in the feed discs 42 registering with said members is thus effected consecutively and at the same time a coupling engagement between all the tens transfer wheels 32 takes place. ,When the cam discs 66 and 12 occupy. a certain relative position, the control lever 58 returns into inoperative position under the influe'nce of the tension spring 64 as soon as the highest feed member 50 engages into the gap 43 of the correlated feed disc 42. In the -meantime the transfer of the tens in the main tens transfer-device has reached the tenth digit wheel to the effect that also this tenth digit wheel 2| is adjusted to exhibit 9 instead of 0 by 5| caused by action of the torsion spring 56 oor-' the setting lever 26 of the highest'setting unit cooperating with the correlated wheel 26. 
 As this tenth digit wheel 2| as well as all those of a higher order are firmly secured to the appertaining square shafts 29 on which the tens transfer wheels 32 are axially displaceably arranged together with the feed discs 42, consequent on the adjustment of the tenth digit wheel, also the special tens transfer wheel 32 correlated to the tenth digit wheel is turned in unison with its in feed disc 42 through a corresponding angular range, thus displacing the feed member 44 and thereby the hollow shaft 5| and the stirrup 54 to the left, thus in the opposite direction of the arrow in Fig. 3. Since at this time, all the feed 15 members 44 to 50 are moved into engagement with the correlated feed discs 42, all the digit wheels situated further to the left are adjusted from 0 to 9 simultaneously with the adjust ment of the tenth digit wheel, whereby the stirrup 20 54 is reset into initial position by the main tens transfer device actuating also the special tens transfer wheel 32 which is fixed on the shaft 29 of the tenth digit wheel as previously explained. Thus, it will be seen that the special tens transfer 25 wheel 32 provides in conjunction with the parts 42, 44 to 51 a coupling arrangement for the auxiliary tens transfer wheels 32. During the end portion of the rotational movement of the main shaft I6 and that of the tens transfer shaft 24 30 respectively, the stop rail 61 is rocked by action of the cam disc 12 in the direction opposite to that indicated by the arrow 1), so that the feed members 44 to. 50 are moved out of engagement w th the feed discs 42 of the tens transfer wheels 35 32 again in the initial position of the stirrup 54. 
 On the counting mechanism carriage 3 being shifted to the right in Fig. 2, the tens transfer wheels 32, which then move to the right past the (tenth) setting unit of the main tens trans- 40 fer device, must be moved clear of the paths of movement of the correlated feed members 44 to 50. This is effected by axially displacing the respective tens transfer wheels 32 on the appertaining square shafts 29 by means of the corre- 45 spending slides 35 riding up on the ascending face 4| of the fixed cam rail 46 during shifting the counting mechanism carriage 3 to the right, thus shifting the individual slides against the influence of the correlated tension springs 36 in 50 wards on the carriage 3. At each step of the shifting movement of the carriage 3 to the right, the next following pin 51 of the row on the stirrup 54 is moved in the path of the periodically reciprocating control lever 58. 
 During each revolution of the tens transfer shaft 24, the feed members 44 to 50 swing, as erplained above, in the direction towards the correlated tens transfer wheels 32. The additional tens transfer device is, however, rendered opera- G0 tive in this manner only, when one or more of the feed members 44 to 50 are adapted to inter engage with the recess 43 of the correlated feed disc 42 in dependency on the adjustment of the feed discs 42 as required by the calculating opera- 63 tion to be carried out. From this'and the previous explanations follows without any further comment that the additional tens transfer operation is continued from a lower digit wheel to the next higher one in such a manner that at the 70 lower digit wheel the respective feed member of the series 44 to 50 feels the correlated feed disc 42, i. e. enters into the gap 43 thereof, whereafter at the next higher digit wheel the tens transfer is effected. This operation is carried out by the 75 gaging in the gap of the appertaining tens transfer wheel 32, and the hollow shaft 5| being turned through an angular range of such an extent that Subsequently, the special tens transfer wheel 32 of the lower (tenth) digit wheel, which is rotated by the tenth setting unit of the main tens transfer device, causes the auxiliary tens transfer wheel 32 of the next higher digit wheel, which is connected with the special tens transfer wheel v32 by the hollow shaft 5|, to be fed by axially displacing the hollow shaft 5| and the stirrup 54 together with it. Tnereupon the said feed members are again moved out of engagement with the correlated tens transfer wheels 32 and so forth, all in the manner as previously explained. The stirrup 54. whenoperated by the control lever 58, is moved into that preliminary position'in which it permits the respective feed members to engage with feed discs 42 of the tens transfer device. 
When the machine is set for add ng instead of subtracting, the te nal recess 59-01 the control lever .38 is applied esult that the stirrup 54 and-the holler-z inclusive of the feed members 44 to 5E! a co to the left in Fig. 3. Thus, if the digit I correlated to the tenth result cipher vieiaperture be so adjusted that in this viewing aperture. of the counting mechanism carriage 3 a numeral different from 9 is exhibited, in course of the next addition, for mathematical reasons, at the next higher digit wheel, i. e. the eleventh digit wheel, the performance of a tens transfer operation is inhibitive. 
 Now, if the additional tens transfer wheel 32 separately shown in Fig. 6 assumes a position according to this assumption, to the feed member 44 thus having been shifted to the left this time not the gap 43 of the correlated feed disc 42 is juxtaposed, the feed member 44 being simply inserted in'a tooth gap of the respective wheel 32 until it is brought to bear on the correlated feed disc 42. 
 Owing to the fact that 'the upper radial edges of the feed members to 50 are situated in a helix (Fig.3), aside from member 44 no other feed member is inserted in any gap of correlated wheels 32, the tenth digit wheel 2| thus being adapted to be fed by one unit depending on requirements of the calculating operation to be carried out without the digit wheels 2| situated to the left being disturbed. 
 If, on the other hand, the tenth digit wheel 2| is so adjusted that in the corresponding viewing aperture of the counting mechanism carriage 3 the number 9 is displayed and the next following (eleventh digit wheel 2|) is adjusted to display a numeral different from 9, and if the tenth digit wheel 2| is shifted one digit, from 9 to "0, during the next following adding operation, it isindispensable that at the eleventh digit wheel a tens transfer operation takes place. 
 To this end, it will be assumed that the special transfer wheel-32 correlated to the tenth digit wheel is rocked clockwise one division from the position shown in Fig. 6', so that the recess 43 of the respective feed disc 42 is positioned on the left of the vertical middle plane. I 
The feed member 44 previously shifted to the 'feed member of the next higher digit wheel enleft by means of control lever 58 and stirrup 54 enters during the following rotational movement of the hollow shaft 5| into the recess 43 of the feed disc 42, whereas the next following feed member 45 of the series interengages with a gap of the correlated tens transfer wheel 32, so as to be coupled with the tenth digit wheel. If then, in accordance with the above assumption, the tenth digit wheel 2| is adjusted by the main tens transfer device from its position to exhibit the numeral "9 to "0 position, it will be seen that, due to the described coupling operation, the required tens transfer operation is actually efiected at the eleventh digit wheelby means of the auxiliary tens transfer device, whereas all the digit wheels 2| situated on the left thereof remain unaffected in consequence of the relatively offset disposition of the upper edges of the feed members 44 to 50. Otherwise the parts participating in this transfer operation are moved in i the manner as explained in connection with the subtracting operation. 
 With the two further embodiments of the invention represented by the Figs. 11, 12 and Figs. 13 to 15 respectively, it refers again to the square shafts which are mounted in the frame 5 of the machine and adapted to cooperate, in a known manner, by means of reversing gears i9, 20 with .digit wheels 21 of the result indicating mechanism arranged on the carriage 3. The reference numeral 22 denotes also here the reversing lever for the portion is of the reversing gear which is displaceably arranged on the square shaft l4, and by 23 the lever for effecting the operations preparatory to the tens transfer operation of the main tens transfer device is designated, which may again span the digit wheels 1 to 10 to the initial position of the carriage 3. The correlated tens transfer shaft is indicated by 24 and carries a feed cam 25 for the setting lever 26 of each setting unit which lever, for effecting the tens transfer operation, is adapted for cooperation with a gear wheel 26 axially displaceably arranged on the square shaft l4. 
 The digit wheels 2| mechanical tens transfer operation is provided and which have correlated thereto a turn button 21 and a drive wheel 28, are each arranged similarly as before on extended square shafts 29 mounted between an angle bar 30 and a rib 3| of the counting mechanism carriage 3, and each carries a tens transfer wheel 32, so as to be displaceable thereon by means of a hub 33. Each individual tens transfer wheel 32 is coupled to a correlated slide 35, not shown in the Figs. 12 to 14, by means of a flap 34" taking into an annular groove in the hub of. the wheel (Fig. 11). The slides 35 are situated underneath the cover plate of the counting mechanism carriage 3 and advantageously inserted in grooves in the angle bar 30 and the rib 3|. To two studs 13 of the counting mechanism carriage a coiled spring 33' is attached (Fig. 11) which is afforded occasional points of support along its span by pins 14 connected to the carriage and which cooperates with bent-over flaps of the slides 35. This spring has for which additional with the flaps 15 of the slides 85, when the counting mechanism carriage is moved out of initial position. 
The tens transfer wheels 82 are providedon .the circumference between two teeth correspondof a bolt 18. The slide 19 in turn is longitudinally displaceably guided on the counting mechanism carriage by two pins 88 on the latter projecting through slotted holes in this slide. In addition, on these two pins 88 two supporting arms 8I and 82 are mounted the other ends of which are interconnected by a link 83 which thus completes an adjustable lever parallelogram. The supporting arm 82 is provided with another arm projecting beyondits fulcrum and having a straight guide face 84 for cooperation with a stop pin 85 connected to the control lever 11. 
 To an extension of the control lever 11 projecting beyond the fulcrum 18 of the same, a tension spring 86 is attached the other end of which is secured to a feed control stud 81 of the slide 19. The slide 19 carries a series of uniformly spaced control studs 81 in an equal number as tens transfer wheels 32 are provided. The supporting arm 82 influenced by the tension spring 88 tends to retain the control lever 11 in inoperative position, as. shown, in which the teeth 18 of this lever are spaced apart from the tens transfer wheels 32-by a certain distance. 
 In the Figs. 11 to 14, the numeral 88 refers to a control lever which is mounted on the machine frame by means of a bolt 89. The control lever 88 is of angular shape, one arm of this lever serving for cooperation with the link 83 of the adjustable lever parallelogram, whereas the other arm of the lever 88 cooperates with a cam disc 9| through the intermediary of a guide roller 98 which is maintained in contact with the periphery of the cam disc 9| by a tension spring 88' acting on the control -lever 88. The cam disc 9| is connected to the main shaft I8 of the machine. 
 In the embodiment of the invention, shown in the Figs. 11 and 12, a setting lever 92 for cooperation with the studs 81 of the slide 19 is mounted on a control lever 93. The lever 93 is mounted in turn on the machine frame by means of a pin 94 and acted upon by a tension spring 95, so as to be urged on the circumference of a cam disc 91 with an intervening guide roller 96. The cam disc 91 is secured to a shaft 98 which takes its drive from the main shaft I6 by the aid of a bevel gear wheel drive (Fig. 12). The setting lever 92 is maintained in contact with an end face of a reversing rail I88 by a tension spring 99, the rail being adapted to be actuated in the transverse direction by means of the operating lever 22 for shifting the displaceable portion I9 of the reversing gear. 
This 'end face of the reversing rail I88 cooperating with the setting lever 92 is situated on a cantisides to form a central apex, so that the lever is adapted to engage during its upward movement by means of one or the other beveled portion with that stud 81 of the slide 19 which has been entered in its path, depending whether the machine, that is, the reversing rail I88 is set for addition or subtraction by adjusting the rail I88 in one or the other transverse direction, as indicated by the double arrow marked and and in Fig. 11. 
 In this figure, the reversing rail I88 and thus also the setting lever 92 are shown to be set for subtracting with the aid of the machine. After shifting the reversing rail I88 into position for adding, the setting lever 92 is positioned opposite the front face of the projection I8! and thus rocked somewhat to the left as compared with theposition shown in Fig. 11. The forward and rearward end face portions of the lever I88 are interconnected by a slanting portion, for facilitating the shifting movements of the setting lever 92 by means of the rail I88: 
 When the counting mechanism carriage occupies its initial, that is, its. extreme left hand position, the main tens transfer device is, as previously assumed, adapted to operate up to the tenth digit wheel by cooperation with the individual setting units for the main group of digit wheels 1 to 10 of the set of such wheels. To the tenth digit wheel 2I the special tens transfer wheel 32 on the right side in Fig. 11 is connected for conjoint rotation therewith. The additional tens transfer operation is effected by the mechanism just described in the following manner: 
 As it is assumed that the machine is set for subtraction, the beveled end face of the setting lever 92 on the left in Fig. 11 is caused to engage with that stud 81 of the slide 19 which has been entered in the path of this bevel, when the lever 92 is moved upwardly by action of the cam disc 91, by means of the control lever 93, so that the slide 19 is shifted from its previous right hand position to the left hand position, as shown in this figure which represents the normal position of the slide 19 duringsubtracting. 
 Thereupon the control lever 88 actuated by the cam disc III is rocked under the influence of the spring 88' in the direction of the arrow (1 shown in Fig. 11. ment the link 83 of the adjustable lever parallelogram is moved downwards by the influence which the tension spring 86 exerts on the control lever 11 and thereby by direct bearing engagement on the supporting arm 82 of the link 83, whereby the control lever 11 swings upwardly. During this upward swing of the control lever 11 the latter engages with they tens transfer wheel 32 which is to be rocked, for example by the respective tooth 16 entering into the gap 43 of this wheel 32. Depending on the position of adjustment of the gaps 43 of the various tens transfer wheels 32, one or more teeth 18 of the control lever 11 can be rendered operative or even all of these teeth, as will be hereinafter more explicitly explained. 
 Immediately after the control lever 11 has completed its swinging movement in the direction towards the wheels 32 or entered into operative engagement respectively, the setting lever 92 actuated by the cam disc 91 is moved downwardly, thus permitting the slide 19 to move freely. In the meantime, in the main tens transfer device, the transferring of tens has been continued up to the tenth digit wheel at which the Due to this rocking movetransfer operation is being completed by cooperation of the respective setting lever 26 with the correlated gear wheel 26', which has been moved into the arcuate path of movement of the lever 26 by the lever 23, so that the special tens transfer wheel 32 to the right in Fig. 11, which as previously-explained, is the wheel associated with this digit wheel, is rocked. By this rocking movement the correlated dig-it wheel 2| is moved from 0-position to the position for exhibiting 9. At the same time. the control lever ll, coupled to the tens transfer wheel 32 of the tenth digit, by engagement of the respective parts 16 and 43, is moved in the same sense together with the slide 79, that is to the right in Fig. 11, which movement can be shared by one or more auxiliary tens transfer wheels 32 that may be coupled to thelever 11, for the purpose of transferring tens, to the effect that the respective wheels 32 are rocked to the extent of one digit. In this manner the tens transfer operation is continued over to the additional digit wheels 11 to 16 without interruption. Thus, also here similarly as in the preceding embodiment the special tens transfer wheel provides in conjunction with the parts 17-81 a coupling arrangement for the auxiliary tens transfer wheels. 
 On the completion of the individual feed motion of the control lever Ti, the link 83 of the adjustable parallelogram is moved back in the direction towards the slide 19 by the control lever 7 8B returning into the position as shown. During this movement the control lever i1 is swung downwardly-by theconjointly moving supporting arm 82 bearing against the stop pin 85 on the lever 11, thus moving its teeth 16 out of .engagement with the tens transfer wheels 32. Thereafter the slide 19 is again displaced to the left in Fig. 11, that is into its end position, as shown I 4 in this figure, by the subsequent periodically repeated vertical reciprocation of the setting lever 92 which thereby, as previously explained, co- 
 operates with one of the studs 81 of the slide 19. 
At the proper time, the control lever 88 is again rocked at certain intervals in the direction of swings upwards. 
the arrow d in Fig. 11 in consequence of which the link 83 of the adjustable lever parallelogram is moved downwards again by action of the spring 86, while at the same time the control lever 11 But so long as no tens feed operation is to be effected by means of the control lever 11, this lever is not caused to interengage with any tens transfer wheel 32, the lever merely striking at each upward swing the bottom of a normal tooth gap of less depth than the gaps 43 of the specialv tens transfer wheel 32 to the right in Fig. 11 with the correlated innermost tooth 16. During the subsequent feed motion of the special tens transfer wheel 32, caused by the lever 26, and consequent displacement of the control lever 11 together with the slide 19, none of the auxiliary tens transfer wheels correlated to the digit wheels 11 to 16 is actuated by this control lever, as the same has not entered into engagement with any of these tens transfer wheels by means of one of its teeth having all diflerent lengths as required. 
 Only after further feed motions of said tens transfer wheel 32, the control lever 11 enters into the gap 43 of the same, whereupon this lever is adapted to actuate the next following auxiliarytens transfer wheel 32 and for further auxiliary tens transfer wheels by engagement into the normal tooth gaps of these wheels or the gap 43 of 5 the same respectively, so that th? tens 1 3. 333? of simultaneous interengagement of the control lever 11 with the gap 43 of the special tens transfer wheel 32 associated with the tenth digit wheel and one or more auxiliary tens transfer wheels 32. From there on the feed of the auxiliary tens transfer wheels 32 of a higher order is effected, by means of the control lever 11, from the special t'ens transfer wheel 32 which is actuated by the main tens transfer device. Then the control lever 11 swings back into inoperative position in the manner hereinbefore described, during the link 83 of the adjustable lever parallelogram being returned into initial position by action of the back swing of the control lever 88 When the counting mechanism carriage is shifted, to the right in Fig. ll,.out of initial po sition, during which movement the link 83 of the adjustable lever parallelogram slides on the control lever 88, the tens transfer wheels 32, which are then moved past the tenth, i. e. the highest setting unit of the main tens transfer device, must be brought out of the range of movement of the control lever 11. This is effected by axially displacing the respective individual tens transfer wheel 32 on the appertaining square shaft 29 by means of the respective slide 35 by virtue of the flap of the latter riding up on the stationary cam rail 40 during the displacement of the count ing mechanism carriage to the right, so that the slide is longitudinally displaced in its guide in accordance with requirements by influence of the tension spring 36.- Thereafter the control lever 11 operates on the right hand side, as regards Fig. 11, of the second, third and so forth tens transfer wheels, as these wheels are successively arriving at the tenth setting unit. 
 When the machine is set for addition instead of subtraction, the forward projection Hll of the end face of the reversing rail I00 cooperates with the setting lever 92. Consequently, the right hand beveled end face of the setting lever 92, 
when looking at Figure 11, is caused to cooperate with the studs 81 of the slide 19 during the periodical vertical reciprocation ofthe. setting from the vertical middle planes through the axes of the shafts 29, these gaps 43 are positioned on the right hand side of the vertical middle planes through the axes of the shafts 29, when the machine is set for adding. For the purpose of continuing the tens transfer operation beyond the tenth result indicating numeral, the control lever 11, after having entered into engagement with any of the tens transfer wheels 32 by swinging upwardly, shifts from its right hand position to the left, whereupon the operations of the parts are similar to those as described in connection with subtraction. 
, While in the embodiment described immediately above with the highest result indicator digit wheel of the main tens transfer device a special tens transfer wheel 32 must be associated, the further embodiment described below dispenses with this special wheel. In this way, the highest main tens setting lever 26 of the machine is relieved and thus the continuous tens transfer operati-on performed in a more gentle manner, as the setting of the auxiliary tens transfer wheels 32 is no longer effected by the main tens transfer device in a positive manner through the intermediary of the special tens transfer wheel or one of the auxiliary tens transfer wheels, depending on the relative disposition of the carriage and the machine frame, but rather in an indirect manner, as will be hereinafter explained. 
To this end, a second setting lever I05 is provided, as will be seen in the Figs. 13 and 14, I 
which has the oflice to carry out the conjoint displacements of the slide I9 and the control lever TI in the opposite direction to the displacement to be effected by the setting lever 92, by this setting lever I05 also being caused to cooperate with the respective stud 81 of the slide "I9. In order to enable to adjust the two spring pressed setting levers 92 and I05 into positions as required by the setting of the machine for subtraction or addition, the projection IOI on the reversing rail I merges on both sides with depressed end face portions, as shown in Fig. 13. 
 Depending on the respective position of adjustment of the reversing rail I00, the projection IOI cooperates with either one of the levers 92 and I while the other one bears against the respective depressed portion of the front end face, so that the two setting levers 92 and I05 are al- Ways set for opposite directions of movement as required. By action of the two alternately operating setting levers 92 and I05 which thus successively engage one and the same stud 81 of the slide 19 during the upward throws of their vertical reciprocating movements, the slide 19 and the control lever l'l together with it are moved to and fro in the longitudinal direction, as the two setting levers contact with the respective stud 81 on opposite sides thereof. 
- The feed motion of the auxiliary tens transfer wheels 32 is thus effected in a similar manner as explained in connection with the preceding embodiments of the invention, the control lever 11 being rocked back and forth by means of equivalent elements to those previously described. When it is assumed that the main tens transfer devi e operates in the same manner as described in the preceding embodiments up to the tenth digit wheel, the auxiliary tens transfer wheel of the present embodiment, which lies on the extreme right hand side in Fig. 13, is associated with the eleventh digit wheel. 
 In this case, the setting lever 92 is mounted on a slide I06 which is displaceably arranged on the machine frame by means of slots I0] and guide pins engaging the latter. To this slide I06. the forked end of a two armed control lever I08 is coupled which is mounted on a bolt I 09 and provided with a roller H0 for cooperation with a cam disc III. By a tension spring, not shown, the roller IIO of the control lever I08 is maintained in peripheral contact with the cam disc III secured on the main shaft I6 of the machine, the lever 92 thus being periodically moved to and fro in the vertical direction as required, in order to be adapted to reset the slide 19 into inoperative position when. necessary. 
 The additional setting lever I05 is mounted on a slide II2 which is guided by means of slots H3 by corresponding studs on the machine frame so as to be displaceable on the latter. To the slide II 2, the forked end of one arm of a two armed lever Ill also mounted on the bolt I09 is connected, the other arm of which is provided with a slot II5 for receiving a pin II5 fastened to a connecting rod III (Fig. 15). This connecting rod is coupled in turn to the lever 23 serving for effecting preparatory operations for the tens transfer at the highest setting unit of the main tens transfer device (Fig; 14). On the other hand, the pin H6 of the connecting rod II'I projects into an aperture II8 of a control lever II9 which is also mounted on the stationary bolt I09 and which cooperates by means of a roller I20 with a cam disc I2I carried by the main shaft I6. This roller I20 is maintained in bearing engagement with said cam disc by spring action exerted on the control lever H9 by a tension spring not shown, in a known manner. 
 Thus, when the lever 23 at the highest setting unit of the main tens transfer device is rocked, for the purpose of carrying out a preparatory operation for the tens transfer, the connecting rod II! is so shifted that the pin IIB thereof is displaced in the slot II5 of the lever H4 to enter a narrowed portion H0 of the aperture H8 in the control lever II9 (Fig. 15). In this figure, for the sake of clearness the parts H4, Ill and II9 are shown in an exploded fashion. 
 By the pin IIB entering into the portion H8. the control lever H9 is coupled to the lever H4 in such a manner that the latter is adapted to reciprocate in unison withthe control leverv H0. so that the setting lever I05 is also reciprocated in the vertical direction for resetting the slide "I9 into inoperative position. This operation takes place after the control lever 1 has been rocked towards the auxiliary tens transfer wheels 32 for coupling engagement with the same, whereupon the tens transfer operation is effected. The rocking movement of the control lever I1 is carried into effect by moving the link 03 of the adjustable lever parallelogram downwards similarly as described in connection with the first embodiment of the invention. 
 As long as the lever 23 correlated to the highest setting unit of the main tens transfer device remains in the inoperative position, as not being required for assisting in the calculating operation, no tens transfer operation being necersitated at the respective result indicating numeral viewing aperture, the pin IIS of the connecting rod H1 is situated in the wider portion of the aperture 8. With this disposition, the swing ing movement of the control lever II9 is not transmitted to the lever H4 coupled to the connecting rod II'I. Thus the control lever I05 remains inoperative also and consequently the slide out going beyond the scope of our invention as,- 
shown, described and claimed. 
What we claim is: 
 1. In a calculating machine, in combination, a machine frame, a counting mechanism carriage displaceably arranged on said frame and projecting in the initial position beyond one side thereof, a set of result indicator digit wheels mounted in said carriage and comprising a main wheel roup beginning with the lowest and ending with any desired intermediate result indicating numeral and an additional wheel group beginning with the next higher to said intermediate and ending with the highest result indicating numeral, a main tens transfer device arranged in said frame, setting units provided in said main tional wheel group, coupling means mounted on said carriage, a special tens transfer wheel comprisedby said coupling means and' adapted for actuating said auxiliary tens transfer wheels in the initial position of said carriage by conjoint movement with said wheels in accordance with the highest digit wheel setting unit, a feed member provided in said coupling means for said special and each of said auxiliary tens transfer wheels, cam means situated on said machine frame so as to clear said special tens transfer wheel in the initial position of said carriage, adjusting means on said carriage for said special and said auxiliary tens transfer wheels for shifting these wheels axially into inoperative position by engagement with said cam means, and control means mounted on said machine frame for temporarily adjusting said coupling means for coupling certain tens transfer wheels occupying their operative positions to the mating feed members for connecting these tens transfer wheels with said highest setting unit in dependency on requirements of calculation and irrespective of the displacements of said carriage, for mechanically'continuing the transferring of tens up to the highest result indicating numeral by influence of said main tens transfer device. 
 2. In a calculating machine, in combination, a machine frame, a counting mechanism carriage displaceably arranged on said frame and projecting in the initial position beyond one side thereof, a set of result indicator digit wheels mounted in said carriage and comprising a main wheel group beginning with the lowest and ending with any desired intermediate result indicating numeral and an additional wheel group beginning with the next higher to said intermediate and ending with the highest result indicating numeral, a main tens transfer device arranged in said frame, setting units provided in said main tens transfer device in the number of said main digit wheels, a series of auxiliary tens transfer wheels provided on said carriage for said additional wheel group, coupling means mounted on said carriage a special tens transfer wheel comprised by said coupling means and adapted for actuating said auxiliarytens transfer wheels in the initial position of -said carriage by conjoint movement with said wheels in accordance with the highest digit wheel setting unit, a feed member provided in said coupling means for said special and each of said auxiliary tens transfer wheels, a cam railfixed on the machine frame v opposite said carriage to extend substantially in the direction from said highest setting unit towards lower setting units, adjusting slides on said carriage for said special and said auxiliary tens transfer wheels each carrying one of said wheels and adapted to cooperate with said cam rail, for shifting said wheels individually into inoperative position by engagement with said stop rail, and control means mounted on said machine frame for temporarily adjusting said coupling means for coupling certain tens transfer wheels occupying their operative positions to the mating feed members for connecting these tens transfer wheels with said highest setting unit in dependency-on requirements of calculation and irrespective of the displacements of said carriage, for mechanically continuing the transferring of tens up 'to the highest result indicating numeral by influence of said main tens transfer device. 
 3. In a calculating machine, in'combination, a. machine frame, a counting mechanism carriage displaceably arrangedon said frame and projecting in the initial position beyond one side there- .of, a set of result indicator digit wheels mounted in said carriage and comprising-a main wheel group beginning with the lowestand ending with any desired intermediate result indicating numeral and an additional wheel group beginning with the next higher to said intermediate and ending with the highest result indicating numeral, a main tens transfer device arranged in said frame, setting units provided in said main tens transfer device in the number of said main digit wheels, a series of auxiliary t'ens transfer wheels provided on said carriage for said additional wheel group, coupling means mounted on the direction from said highest setting unit towards lower setting units, spring pressed adjusting slides on said carriage for said special and said auxiliary tens transfer wheels each carrying one of said wheels and adapted to cooperate with said cam rail for shifting said wheels individually into inoperative position by engagement with said stop rail, a driving element on each slide for engagement with an annular groove in the respective tens transfer wheel, and control means mounted on said machine frame for temporarily adjusting said coupling means for coupling certain tens transfer wheels occupying their operative positions to the mating feed members for connecting these tens transfer wheels with said highest setting unit in dependency on requirements of calculation and irrespective of the displacements of said carriage, for mechanically continuing the transferring of tensup to the highest result indicating numeral by influence of said main tens transfer device. 
 4. In a calculating machine, in combination, a machine frame, a counting mechanism carriage displaceably arranged ,on said frame and projecting in the initial position beyond one side thereof, a set of result indicator digit wheels mounted in said carriage and comprising a main wheel group beginning with the lowest and ending with any desired intermediate result indicating numeral and an additional wheel group beginning with the next higher to said intermediate and ending with the highest result indicating numeral, a main tens, transfer device ar-- member provided in said coupling means for said 'special and each of said auxiliary tens transfer wheels, a common displaceable mounting shaft for said feed members, means for periodically reciprocating said feed members relatively to said tens transfer wheels, control means mounted on said machine frame for displacing said mounting shaft longitudinally of said tens transfer wheels together with said feed members in position for engagement with said wheels, and means for moving said feed members into engagement with certain tens transfer wheels, for connecting these tens transfer wheels with said highest setting unit in dependency on require ments of calculation and irrespective of the displacements of said carriage, for mechanically l5 continuing the transferring of tens up to the highest result indicating numeral and simultaneously resetting said mounting shaft into initial position by influence of said main tens transfer device. 
 5. In a calculating machine, in combination, a machine frame, a counting mechanism carriage displaceably arranged on said frame and projecting in the initial position beyond one side thereof, a set of result indicator digit wheels mounted in said carriage and comprising a main wheel group beginning with the lowest and ending with any desired intermediate result indicating numeral and an additional wheel group beginning with the next higher to said intermediate and ending with the highest result indicating numeral, a main tens transfer device arranged in said frame, setting units provided in said main tens transfer device in the number of said main digit wheels, a series of auxiliary tens transfer wheels provided on said carriage for said additional, wheel group, coupling means mounted on said carriage, a special tens transfer wheel comprised by said coupling means and adapted for actuating said auxiliary tens transfer wheels in the initial position of said carriage by conjoint movement with said wheels in accordance with the highest digit wheel setting unit, a feed member provided in said coupling means for said special and each of said auxiliary tens transfer wheels, a common displaceable mounting shaft for said feed members, a setting member connected to said mounting shaft, setting elements on said setting member spaced in accordance with the positions of engagement of said feed members with said tens transfer wheels, means for periodically reciprocating said feed members relatively to said tens transfer wheels, periodically reciprocating control means arranged on said machine frame for cooperation with said setting elements for displacing saidmounting shaft longitudinally of said tens transfer wheels together with said feed members in position for' engagement with said wheels, and means for moving said feed members into engagement with certain tens transfer wheels, for connecting these tens transfer wheels with said highest setting unit in dependency on requirements of calculation and irrespective of the displacements of said carriage, for mechanically continuing the transferring of tens up to the highest result indicating numeral and simultaneously resetting said mounting shaft into initial position by infiuence of, said main tens transfer device. 
 6. In a calculating machine, in combination, a machine frame, a counting mechanism carriage .displaceably arranged on said frame and projecting in the initial position beyond one side there-. 
of, a set of result indicator digit wheels mounted in said carriage and comprising a main wheel group beginning with the lowest and ending with. 
any desired intermediate result indicating nu- Y moral and an additional wheel group beginning with the next higher to said intermediate and ending with the highest result indicating numeral, a main tens transfer device arranged in said frame, setting units provided in said main tens transfer device in the number of said main digit wheels, a series of auxiliary tens transfer wheels provided on said carriage for said additional wheel group, coupling means mounted on said carriage, a special tens transfer wheel comprised by said coupling means and adapted for actuating said auxiliary tens transfer wheels in the initial position of said carriage by conjoint movement with said wheels in accordance with the highest digit wheel setting unit, a feed. 
member provided in said coupling means for said special and each of said auxiliary tens transfer wheels, a common displaceable mounting shaft for said feed members, a setting member connected to said mounting shaft, setting elements on said setting member spaced in accordance with the positions of engagement of said feed members with said tens transfer wheels, means for periodically reciprocating said feed members relatively to said tens transfer wheels, periodically reciprocating control means arranged on said machine frame for cooperation with said setting elements, a forked arm of said control means provided with two recessed cam portions for respective cooperation with said setting ele- 'ments for displacing said mounting shaft in either directionlongitudinally of said tens transfer wheels together with said feed members in position for engagement with said wheels, depending whether the machine is set for adding or subtracting and means for moving said feed members into engagement with certain tens transfer wheels, for connecting these tens trans fer wheels with said highest setting unit in dependency on requirements of calculation and irrespective of the displacements of said carriage, for mechanically continuing the transferring of tens up to the highest result indicating numeral and simultaneously resetting said mounting shaft into initial position by influence of said main tens transfer device. 
 7. In a calculating machine, in combination, a machine frame, a counting mechanism carriage displaceably arranged on said frame and projecting in the initial position beyond one side thereof, a set of result indicator digit wheels mounted in said carriage and comprising a main wheel group beginning with the lowest and ending with'any desired intermediate result indicating numeral and an additional wheel group beginning with the next higher to said intermediate and ending with the highest result indicating numeral, a main tens transfer device arranged in said frame, setting units provided in said main tens transfer device in the number of said main digit wheels, 9. series of auxiliary tens transfer wheels provided on said carriage for said additional wheel group, coupling means mounted on said carriage, a special tens transfer wheel comprised by said coupling means and adapted for actuating said auxiliary tens transfer wheels in the initial position of said carriage by conjoint movement with said wheels in accordance with the highest digit wheel setting unit, a feed member provided in said coupling means for said special and each of said auxiliary tens transfer wheels, 9. common displaceable mounting shaft for said feed members, a. stirrup-shaped setting member connected to said mounting shaft with its yoke extending longitudinally thereof, setting elements on said yoke of said stirrup opposite said mounting shaft and spaced in accord-' ance with the position of engagement of said feed members with said tens transfer wheels, means for periodically reciprocating said feed members relatively to said tens transfer wheels, periodically reciprocating control means arranged on said machine frame for cooperation with said setting elements for displacing said mounting shaft longitudinally of said tens transfer wheels together with said feed members in position for engagement with said wheels, and means for moving said feedmembers into engagement with certain tens transfer wheels, for connecting these tens transfer wheels with said highest setting unit in dependency on requirements of calculation and irrespective of the displacements of said carriage, for mechanically continuing the-transferring of tens up to the highest result indicating numeral and simultaneously resetting said mounting shaft into initial position by influence of said main tens transfer device. 
 8. In a calculating machine, in combination, a machine frame, a drive shaft rotatably mounted in said frame, a counting mechanism carriage displaceably arranged on said frame and projecting in the initial position beyond one side thereof, a set of result indicator digit wheels mounted in said carriage and comprising a main wheel group beginning with the lowest and ending with any. 
desired intermediate result indicating numeral and an additional wheel group beginning with the next higher to said intermediate and ending with the highest result indicating numeral, a main tens transfer device arranged in said frame, setting units provided in said main tens transfer device in the number of said main digit wheels, a series of auxiliary tens transfer wheels provided on said carriage for said additional wheel group, coupling means mounted on said carriage, a special tens transfer wheel comprised by said coupling means and adapted for actuating said auxiliary tens transfer wheels in the initial position of said carriage by conjoint niovement with said wheels in accordance with the highest digit wheel setting unit, a feed disc combined with said special tens transfer wheel and each of said auxiliary tens transfer wheels for common rotation therewith. and provided with an actuating recess, a feed member provided in said coupling means for said special and each of said auxiliary tens transfer wheels, said feed members being mounted with their actuating portions in gradually stepped up relation, means for periodically reciprocating said feed members relatively to said tens transfer wheels from said drive shaft for successive engagement of their gradually stepped up actuating portions in the respective actuating recesses of said feed discs, and control means mounted on said machine frame for temporarily adjusting said coupling means for connecting certain tens transfer wheels with said highest setting unit by engagement of said actuating portions with said actuating recesses in dependency on requirements of calculation and irrespective of the displacements of said carriage, for mechanically continuing the transferring of tens up to the highest result indicating numeral by influence of said main tens transfer device. i 
 9, In a calculating machine, in combination, a machine frame, a drive shaft rotatably mounted in said frame, a counting mechanism carriage displaceably arranged on said frame and projecting in the initial position beyond one side thereof, a set of result indicator 'digit wheels mounted in said carriage and comprisinga main wheel group beginning with the lowest and ending with any desired intermediate result indicating numeral and an additional wheel group beginning with the next higher to said intermediate and ending with the highest result indicating numeral, a main tens transfer device arranged in said frame, setting units provided in said main tens transfer device in the number of said main digit wheels, a series of auxiliary tens transfer wheels provided on said carriage for said additional wheel group, coupling means mounted on said carriage, a special tens transfer wheel comprised by said coupling means and adapted for actuating said auxiliary tens transfer wheels in the initial position of said carriage by conjoint movement with said wheels in accordance with the highest digit wheel setting unit, a feed .disc combined with said special tens transfer wheel and each of said auxiliary tens transfer wheels for common rotation therewith and provided with an actuating recess, a feed member provided in said coupling means for said special and each of said auxiliary tens transfer wheels, said feed members being mounted with their actuating portions in graduallystepped up relation, spring means for urging said feed members towards said tens transfer wheels, for successive engagement of their gradually stepped up actuating portions in the respective actuating tions with said actuating recesses in dependency on requirements of calculation and irrespective of the displacements of said carriage, for mechanically continuing the transferring of tens up to the highest result indicating numeral by influence of said main tens transfer device. 
 10. In a calculating machine, in combination, a machine frame, a drive shaft rotatably mounted in said frame, a counting mechanism carriage displaceably arranged on said frame and projecting in the initial position beyond one side thereof, a set of result indicator digit wheels mounted in said carriage and comprising a main wheel group beginning with the lowest and ending with any desired intermediate result indicating numeral and an additional wheel group beginning with the next higherto said intermediate comprised by said coupling means and adapted for actuating said auxiliary tens, transfer wheels in the initial position of said carriage by conjoint movement with said'wheels in accordance with the highest digit wheels setting unit, a feed disc combined with said special tens transfer wheel and each ofsaid auxiliary tens-transfer wheels for common rotation therewith and pro-' vided with an actuating recess, a feed member provided in said coupling, means for said special absence and each of said auxiliary tens transfer wheels. said feed members being mounted with their actuating portions in gradually stepped up relation, spring means for urging said feed members towards said tens transfer wheels, for successive engagement of their gradually stepped up actuating portions in the respective actuating recesses of said feed discs, an abutment common to said feed members for imparting a back swing to the same against the action of said spring by virtue of said drive shaft, means for reciprocating said abutment in timed relation with said drive shaft for influencing the relative positions of said actuating portions and said tens transfer wheels, and control means mounted on said machine frame for temporarily adjusting, said coupling means, for connecting certain tens transfer wheels with said highest setting unit by engagement of said actuating portions with said actuating recesses in dependency on requirements of calculation and irrespective of the displacements of said carriage, for mechanically continuing the transferring of tens up to the highest result indicating numeral by influence of said main tens transfer device. 
 11. In a calculating machine, in combination, a machine frame, a counting mechanism carriage displaceably arranged on said frame and projecting in the initial position beyond oneside thereof, a set of result indicator digit wheels mounted in said carriage and comprising a main wheel group beginning with the lowest and ending with any desired intermediate result indicating numeral and an additional wheel group beginning with the next higher to said intermediate and ending with the highest result indicating numeral, a main tens transfer device arranged in said frame, setting units provided in said main tens transfer device in the number of said main digit wheels, a series of auxiliary tens transfer wheels provided on said carriage for said additional wheel group, a swingable control lever operatively associatedwith said auxiliary tens transfer wheels for coupling said lever to said wheels during swinging in one direction and adapted for conjoint movement with said wheels for setting said wheels, mounting means for said swingable control lever provided on said carriage adapting-said lever for longitudinal displacement relatively to said auxiliary tens transfer wheels, and control means mounted on said machine frame for temporarily adjusting said swingable control lever for connecting certain auxiliary tens transfer wheels with said highest setting unit in dependency on requirements of calculation and irrespective of the displacements of said carriage, for mechanically continuing the transferring of tens up to the highest result indicating numeral, by displacement of said swingable control lever by influence of said main tens transfer device. 
12, In a calculating machine, in combination, a 
machine frame, a counting mechanism carriage displaceably arranged on said frame and pro- I jecting in the initial position beyond one side thereof, a set of result indicator digit wheels mounted in said carriage and comprising a main wheel group beginning with the lowest and ending with any desired intermediate result indicating numeral and an additional wheel group beginning with the next ,higher to said intermediate and ending with the highest result indicating numeral, a main tens transfer device arranged in said frame, setting units provided in said main tens transfer device in the number of said main digit wheels, a series of auxiliary tens transfer wheels provided on said carriage for said additional wheel group, a special tens transfer wheel correlated to the highest main digit wheel setting unit for setting said auxiliary tens transfer wheels in the initial position of said carriage, said special and each of said auxiliary tens transfer wheels having an actuating recess,.a swingable and control means mounted on said machineframe for temporarily adjusting said swingable control lever for connecting certain tens transfer wheels with said highest setting unit in dependency on requirements of calculation and irrespectiv'e of the displacements of said carriage, for mechanically continuing thetransferring of tens up to the highest result indicating numeral, by displacement of said swingable control lever by influence of said main tens transfer device while the corresponding actuating teeth and recesses engage. 
 13. In a calculating machine, in combination, a machine frame, a counting mechanism carriage displaceably arranged on said frame and projecting in the initial position beyond one side thereof, a set of result indicator digit wheels mounted in said carriage and comprising a main wheel group beginning with the lowest and ending with any desired intermediate result indicating numeral and an additional wheel group beginning with the next higher to said intermediate and ending with the highest result indicating numeral, a main tens transfer device arranged in said frame, setting units provided in said main tens transfer device in the number of said main digit wheels, a series of auxiliary tens transfer wheels provided on said carriage for said additional wheel group, a special tens transfer wheel correlated to the highest main digit wheel setting unit for setting said auxiliary tens transfer wheels in the initial position of said carriage, a swingable control lever operatively associated with said special and said auxiliary tens transfer wheels for coupling said lever to said wheels during swinging in one direction and adapted for conjoint setting movement with said wheels, mounting means for said swingable control lever provided on said carriage adapting said lever for longitudinal displacement relatively to said tens transfer wheels, spring means for retracting said swingable control lever from said tens transfer wheels, an adjustable leverparallelogram associated with said swingable control lever, a controllink in said lever parallelogram operatively connected-with said swingable control lever, an operating lever mounted on said machine frame and contacting with said control link, and control means arranged on said machine frame and adapted for temporarily adjusting said swingable control lever for connecting certain tens transfer wheels with said highest setting unit in dependency on requirements of calculation and irrespective of the displacements of said carriage, for mechanically continuing the transferring of tens up to the highest result indicating numeral by displacement of said swingable control lever while said control link slides across said operating lever. 
 14. In a calculating machine, in combination, a machine frame, a counting mechanism carriage displaceably arranged on said frame and projecting in the initial position beyond one side thereof, a set of result indicator digit wheels mounted in said carriage and comprising a main wheel group beginning with the lowest and ending with any desired intermediate result indicating numeral and an additional wheel group beginning with I the next higher to said intermediate and ending with the highest result indicating numeral, 2. main tens transfer device arranged in said frame, settin units provided in said main tens transfer device in the number or said main digit wheels, a series of auxiliary tens transfer wheels provided on said carriage for said additional wheel group, a special tens transferw'neel correlated to the highest main digit wheel setting unit for setting said auxiliary tens ""nsfer wheels in the initial position of id ca" ;age, a swingable control lever operativ y associated with said special and said auxiliary tens transfer wheels for coupling said lever to said wheels during swinging in one direction and adapted for COIllGilllJ setting movement with said wheels, a stop member on said swingable control lever, mounting means for said swingable control lever on said carriage adapting said lever for longitudinal displacement relatively to said tens transfer wheels, spring means for retracting said swingable control lever from said tens transfer wheels, an adjustable lever parallelogram associated with said swingab-le control lever, a control link in said lever parallelogram for said swingable control lever. a supporting link in said lever parallelogram for said control link I cooperating with said stop member on said spring influenced swingable control lever, an operating lever mounted on said machine frame and con tacting with said control link, and control means arranged on said machine frame and adapted for temporarily adjusting said swingable control lever for connecting certain tens transfer wheels with said highest setting unit in dependency on requirements of calculation and irrespective of the displacements of said carriage, for mechanica11y'continuing the transferring of tens up to the highest result indicating numeral by displace-- ment of said swingable control lever by influence of said main tens transfer device while said control linkslides across said operating lever. 
 15. In a calculating machine, in combination, a machine frame, a counting mechanism carriage displaceably arranged on said frame and projecting in the initial position beyond one side thereof, a set of result indicator digit wheels mounted in said carriage and comprising amain wheel group beginning with the lowest and ending with any desired intermediate result indicating numeral and an additional wheel groupbeginning with the next higher to said intermediate and ending with the highest result indicating .numeral, a main tens transfer device arranged in said frame, setting units provided in said main tens transfer device in the number of said main digit wheels, 2, series of auxiliary tens transfer wheels provided on said carriage for said additional wheel group, a special tens transfer wheel correlated to the highest main digit wheel setting unit for setting said auxiliary tens transfer wheels in the initial position of said carriage, a swingable Q control lever operatively associated with said special and said auxiliary tens transfer wheels for c said lever to said wheels during swinging in one direction and adapted for conjoint setting movement with said wheels, a mounting slide for said swingable control lever provided on said carriage adapting said lever for longitudinal displacement relatively to said tens transfer wheels, and control means arranged on said machine frame for temporarily adjusting said swingable control lever for connecting certain tens transfer .wheels with said highest set-' ting unit in dependency on requirements of calculation and irrespective of the displacements of said carriage, for mechanically continuing the transferring of tens up to the highest result indicating numeral by displacement of said swingable control lever by influence of said main tens transfer device. 
 16. In a calculating machine, in combination, a machine frame, a counting mechanism carriage displaceably arranged on said frame and projecting in the initial position beyond one side thereof, a set of result indicator digit wheels mounted in said carriage and comprising a main wheel group beginning with the lowest and ending with any desired intermediate result indicating numeral and an additional wheel group beginning with the next higher to said intermediate and ending with the highest gesult indicating wheels provided on said carriage for said additional wheel group, a special tens transfer wheel correlated to the highest main digit wheel setting unit for setting said auxiliary tens transfer wheels in the initial position ofsaid carriage, a swingable control lever operatively associated with said special and said auxiliary tens transfer wheels for coupling said lever to said wheels during swinging in one direction and adapted for conjoint setting movement with said wheels, a mounting slide for said swingable control lever provided on said carriage adapting said lever for longitudinal displacement relatively to said tens transfer wheels, feed control studs provided on said mounting slide, and a setting lever arranged on said machine frame and adapted for periodically cooperating with one of said feed control studs at a time for adjusting said mounting slide together with said swingable control lever in either direction relatively to said tens transfer wheels depending whether adding' or subtracting is required, for connecting certain tens transfer wheels with said highest setting unit in dependency on requirements of calculation and irrespective of the displacements of said carriage, for mechanically continuing the transferring of tens up to the highest result indicating numeral by displacement of said swingable control lever by influence of said main tens transfer device. 
 1'7. In a calculating machine, in combination, a machine frame, a, counting mechanism carriage displaceably arranged on said frame and projecting in the initial position beyond one side thereof, a set of result indicator digit wheelsmounted in said carriage and comprising a main wheel'group beginning with the lowest and ending with any desired intermediate result indicating numeral series of auxiliary tens'transfer wheels provided number of said main digit wheels, a series of auxiliary tens transfer wheels provided alons said initially projecting length portion 0! said carriage for said additional wheel group, coupling means mounted on said carriage for common displacement therewith relative to said frame, a special tens transfer wheel comprised L by said coupling means and adapted for actuating said auxiliary tens transfer wheels in the initial position of said carriage by conjoint movement with said wheels in accordance with the highest main digit wheel setting unit, and control means mounted on said machine frame for temporarily adjusting said coupling means for connecting certain auxiliary tens transfer wheels with said highest setting unit in dependency on requirements of calculation and irrespective of the displacements of said carriage, for mechanically continuing the transferring of tens up to the highest result indicating numeral by influence of said main tens transfer device. 
HEINRICH SUTER. ALFRED GRASSHOFF.