Calculating machine 
US-2081836-A
nan
1937-05-25
https://patents.google.com/patent/US2081836A/en
May 25, 1937. c 
CALCULATING MACHINE Original Filed Oct. 6, 1932 7 Sheets-Sheet l 1 v a 2 km R Z i E O M R Ta 0 HR ,"H V m a A m "I Emm 0 a 2 09 O 5 O 5 2 2S 0 m 2 39 w E T S E Wm E C Wu H I O T W 3 c E om m 2 2% May 25, 1937. E. RACZ CALCULATING MACHINE Original Filed Oct. 6, 1932 '7 Sheets-Sheet hm S 6, 1932 7 Sheets-Sheet 3 May 25, E Z 
CALCULATING MACHINE Original Filed Oct. 
INVENTQR Ernesf Pacz via ATTORNEY May 25, 1937. E. RACZ CALCULATING MACHINE Original Fi led Oct. 6, 1932 7 Sheets-Sheet 4 BY Ernesi Hack Mm, 1 220 INVENTOR ATTORNEYS May 25, 1937. E. RACZ 2,081,836 
CALCULATING MACHINE Original Filed Oct. 6, 1932 7 Sheets-Sheet 5 INVENTOR mesf Baez ATTORN EYS May 25, 1937. E. RACZ CALCULATING MACHINE 7 Sheets Sheet 6 Original Filed Oct. 6, 1932 v INVENTOR Emeaf Paw: 
flaw Vhdm ATTORNEYS May 25, 1937., E. RACZ CALCULATING MACHINE Original Filed 0m. 6, 1932 7 Sheets-Sheet 7 :IBY 
 E/nesf Pacz My Mr%%4 ATTORNEYS Patented May 25, 1937 UNITED STATES CALCULATING MACHINE Ernest Baez, Detroit, Mich, assignor roughs Adding Machine Company, 
Mich., a corporation Application October 6, 
to Bur- Detroit, of Michigan 3 1932, Serial No. 636,465 
Renewed November 6, 1936 63 Claims. 
 This invention relates to a calculating machine. It is particularly concerned with the paper controlling equipment of a machine of this character but it also relates to certain other features of the machine that operate in predetermined ways in combination with the paper equipment. The machine is sometimes called a Cash receipting machine because it is often used to issue receipts for cash payments made by customers of the owner of the machine. 
 In certain lines of business, for example, in the public utility business, it is desirable, when a customer presents his bill to a cashier for payment in cash, tonot only be able to return to the customer a receipted bill, but to also be able to keep a record of the payment. The present invention concerns a machine in which a customers bill may be quickly and easily inserted into a machine by front feeding itwith relation to a platen which, preferably, has a record strip or sheet about it on which a record of all payments is kept. After the bill has been inserted and the platen moved to printing position, the amount of the payment is entered on the keys of the machine and the machine operated, as a result of which the amount of the payment and the date are printed in a portion of the bill, called, the stub. Similar impressions are also madeon the record strip. Provision is made for then automatically moving the bill to a second printing position where the amount of the pay ment is printed on the main or receipt portion of the bill and the stub on which the printing first occurred is cut off and dropped into a locked container for the use of the manager of the department in checking the cash. During this second operation, the amount of the payment is entered in a register which accumulates the cash receipts for the day. When the machine completes its operation, the receipt portion of the bill is automatically released so that the cashier can remove it quickly and hand it to the customer. 
 At the end of a day, the manager balances the stubs in the locked compartment with the cash received for the day and with the total recorded on the cash receipt register which provides a check on the cash and on the employees. At the same time, the customer receives a receipt on which is recorded mechanically the amount of his payment. 
 In order to accomplish the above-mentioned results, the machine has been provided with a number of novel features which cooperate in performing the functions mentioned. 
 The general object of the invention is to provide an improved machine of the general character mentioned. 
 A more particular object is to provide an improved front-feed mechanism for a machine of 5 the character described. 7 
 Another particular object is'to provide an improved construction in which a platen is moved to and from printing position, and a throat" separate from the platen for receiving front-fed 10 sheets is automatically opened and closed as the platen is moved to and from printing position. 
 Other particular objects are: to provide improved control for the means that holds the front-fed work sheets; to provide an improved 15 automatic stop for arresting the front-fed work sheets in proper position; to provide improved means for feeding the work sheets relative to the platen without disturbing the platen; and to provide an improved autographic feature. 
 Other objects and advantages of the invention will appear from the following'specification and drawings: 
 An embodiment of the invention is shown in the accompanying drawings in which:- 
 Figure 1 is a right side elevation of the machine with the parts in position for receiving a. frontfed work sheet or bill. 
 Fig. 2 is a sample bill illustrating how the machine prints the, amount of the cash payment on both the stub and the customer's receipt portion of the bill. 
 Fig. 3 is a right side elevation of the machine with the No. 1 operating key depressed and the parts operated to the position they occupy at the end of the first forward stroke of the machine. 
 Fig. 4 is another right side elevation of the machine showing the parts in the position they occupy after the machine has completed its first operation under the control of the No. 1 operating key. 
 Figs. 5, 6, and '7 are detailed partial side elevations showing the key restoring and key locking mechanisms in different positions. 
 Fig. 8 is another right side elevation-of the machine showing the parts in the position they occupy at the end of a forward stroke of operation under the control of the No. 2 operating yn Fig. 9 is a partial side elevation showing particularly the operating means for the line spacing and the cut-off mechanisms. 
 Fig. 10 is a partial right side elevation showing particularly the paper equipment, the parts being in the position they occupy to receive a bill or work sheet. 
 Fig. 11 is a right side elevation similar to Fig. 12 with the parts in the position they occupy after a bill has been inserted and the platen moved to printing position. 
 Fig. 12 is a detailed perspective view of the limit stop for arresting the bills in proper position as they are inserted in the machine. 
 Fig. 13 is a left side elevation of the'paper equipment showing the parts in the position they occupy for receiving a bill. 
 Fig. 14 is a view similar to Fig. 13 with the platen moved down slightly and showing particularly how the bill is held against movement while the platen is being lowered to printing position. 
 Fig. 15 is a perspective view of a portion of the paper equipment showing particularly the feeding and cutting off mechanism for feeding the bill to a position to have the stub severed from the receipt. 
 Fig. 16 is a detail perspective view of some of the parts shown in Fig. 15; 
 Fig. 17 is a detail perspective view of the platen latch and the controls therefor; 
Fig. 18 is a detailed side elevation of the latch plate for the cperation keys; 
 Fig. 19 is a detailed side elevation of some of the parts controlled by the No. 1 2" operation keys. 
 The invention is shown applied to a calculating machine of the type shown in Horton Patent 1,853,050 and known as the Burroughs Portable. Only such parts of this machine as are more particularly related to the present invention have been illustrated in the drawings and the description of the machine will be made very brief. 
 The machine has a plurality of banks of depressible amount keys I (Fig. 1) which control differential stop bars 2 that are connected to actuator racks 3 which, in turn, have the type bars 4 connected to them. Associated with the actuator racks 3 are one or more registers 5. The machine is provided with a main drive shaft 6 which may be oscillated by means of a handle 1 or by means of a motor, not shown, but illustrated in the Horton patent referred to. 
 In entering an item, the amount keys are depressed, and the machine is given a forward and return stroke of operation which results in differentially positioning the actuator racks and type bars after which the printing mechanism, in cluding the hammers B, operates to print the amount. The registers are suitably controlled to engage the actuator racks to add or subtract the amount entered. 
 A plurality of control keys are provided at the right side of the keyboard, including the total key T and the sub-total key ST and special control keys for the present machine which, for convenience, will be designated as the No. 1 opcrating key and the No. 2 operating key. The machine operations that take place under control of these keys will be referred to as the No. 1 and the No. 2 machine operations. The registers 5 total keys in the a total and chine. 
 The machine is preferably mounted on a cash drawer 9, portions of which are shown in Fig. 1, so that a receptacle for receipt of cash is conveniently available for the operator. 
 well-known manner to enable sub-total to be taken from the maand the No. 
are controlled by the total and sub- Front feed features In order that the customers bill may be quickly and easily inserted into the machine, provision is made for front feeding the bill with reference to the platen without disturbing the record sheet that is held in feeding relation about the platen. A throat for receiving front-fed bills or work sheets is provided and this throat is open when the machine is in condition to receive a bill. After the bill is inserted, the throat may be closed and the machine operated. When operations have been completed the throat is auiomatically opened to permit one work sheet or receipt to be readily removed and another inserted. 
 These are several features that cooperate in connection with front feeding the bill and, for the sake of convenience, these will be described separately. 
Platen mounting The machine is provided with a platen ID that is movable to and from printing position relative to the printing mechanism of the machine. 
 The platen i0 is rotatably mounted in two side plates If and i2, the side plate it being shown in Fig. and the side plate (2. in Fig. 13. These two side plates are fixed to a cross shaft l3 (Fig. 10) journaled in stationary portions M (Fig. 14) of the paper carriage. The two side plates H and it together with the cross shaft l3 and other cross members which will be mentioned as the description progresses form a. rocking frame which is movable to move the platen into and out of printing position relative to the printing mechanism heretofore mentioned including the type bars 4 and associated parts. 
 The rocking frame is urged in a direction to urge the platen out of printing position by a spring (Fig. 14) connected at one end to the stationary plate M and, at its other end, to one endof a lever l6 pivoted at l"! to the stationary plate It]. The other end of lever i6 is connected to one arm 19 of a bell crank lever whose other arm 20 carries a handle 2 I. The bell crank lever l920 is pivoted at 22 on the movable side plate l2 of the rocking platen frame. The lever [6 together with the arm if! form a toggle mechanism and the spring l5 tends to straighten this toggle, the lever if; being provided with a projection 23 forming a limit stop to arrest the toggle after it has passed slightly over center as shown in Fig. 13. Straightening the togg results in forcing the rocking platen frame counter-clockwise about its pivot l3, as viewed in Fig, 14, and since the spring l5 tends to straighten the toggle, this spring acts to urge the platen out of printing position. This toggle mechanism also serves to hold the platen out of printing position against accidental return. For exam ple, if pressure is put on the platen tending to return it to printing position from its Fig. 13 position, such pressure is resisted by the toggle, which is over center, and the platen will not move. But, if the operator pulls forward on the handle 2|, the toggle will be broken and further pulling on this handle will rock the platen frame downward to move the platen to printing position. 
The platen is held in printing position by a releasable latch comprising a pivoted lever 24 (Figs. 10 and 1'?) pivoted to a stationary plate 25. This lever has a shoulder 26 adapted to cngage over the edge of an abutment 21 on the movable side plate H of the platen frame. The latch is urged to latching position by a spring 28 ill] (Figs. 1 and 10) that urges a slide plate 29 to the left as viewed in said figures, said slide plate being in engagement with the lower end of latch lever 24. The latch may be manually released by pulling forward on the thumb piece 30 or it may be automatically released during the machine operation as will be later described. 
 The stationary side plates |8 (Fig. 14) and 25 (Fig. 10) have suitable slots 3| and 32 in them for enabling the platen shaft to move up and down without interference with the plates. 
 The platen, in moving out of printing position, opens up a space or throat between itself and certain portions of the carriage and the printing mechanism to enable a work sheet to be inserted in substantially horizontal position beneath the platen. 
Record sheet mounting The record sheet shown in the present case is in the form of a narrow continuous strip 40 (Figs. 10 and 11). This strip is fed from a supply roll 4| under the platen l0, up and over an autographic table 42, and back to a storage or takeup reel 43 which is spring urged in a direction to take up the slack in the strip. Both the supply reel 4| and the storage reel 43 are mounted on the rocking frame that supports the platen l0 and move with it, the supply roll being journaled on a cross shaft 44 between side plates II and |2 and the storage roll being carried by standards 45 supported by a cross member 46 (Fig. 11) of therocking platen frame. 
 The record strip 40 is held in feeding relation to the platen by means of feed rolls 41, of which one is shown in Fig. 11. These feed rolls are urged into engagement withthe platen by springs In order to prevent access to the supply and storage rolls for the record strip an enclosing casing 50 (Fig. 1) is provided and this casing is equipped with a lock controlled by a key 52 so that access to the record strip cannot be had except by the possessor of the key. The housing 50 is, of course, carried by the rocking platen frame. 
 Line spacing mechanism is provided for the platen in order to feed the record strip from time to time but a description of this mechanism will be deferred until some of the other parts have been described. 
I Front feed table A front-feed table is provided for receiving and guiding the work sheets or bills under the platen from the front and with the work sheets inclined slightly but substantially in horizontal position. This table is mounted so that it can be swung to substantially vertical position to move the work sheets around the platen and to hold them in vertical position for printing. 
4 A front-feed table 55 (Fig. is pivoted to the stationary side plates l8 and 25 as shown in. 
Figs. 10 and 14. The table has a rearwardly ex- A stud 58 on the side plate l2 of the rocking platen frame is positioned in this slot. 
 When the platen is outof printing position, as shown in Figs. 10 and 13, thepaper table occupies a substantially horizontal position so that it may serve to receive and guide .a work sheet horizontally under the platen from the front and in a convenient position for the sheet to be easily arranged or several sheets to be collated if necessary. 
 As the platen is moved to printing position, the stud 58, operating in the slot 51, acts to swing the table to a substantially vertical position as illustrated in Fig. 11. As the table swings to vertical position it tends to move the front unfed ends of the work sheet to vertical position and, in so doing, bends the sheet about the platen and holds it above the printing line so that the sheet is held properly for printing. 
 The platen and the portions of the stationary frame with which it cooperates form what may be called a front-feed throat into which work sheets may be fed. When the platen is raised it is in what may be termed front-feed position and, at that time, this throat is open. When the platen is moved to printing position the throat is closed. v 
 It should be noted that the handle 2| (Fig. 13), which moves the platen to printing position, also acts, through the platen frame, to swing the paper table 55 to vertical position and, when the platen is moved out of printing position by its spring, the table is automatically moved to a substantially horizontal position. 
' Work sheet receiving and holding means One of the featuresof the present machine is that a separate front feed means for receiving and holding the work sheets is provided which is'independent of the platen with the result that the work sheet can be moved relative to the platen and can be received and held in position independently of the platen. This work sheet. holding ,means is movable from closed to open throat position and vice versa and it is arranged to be in open throat position when the platen is out of printing position with provisions for automatically closing the throat to grip the inserted work sheet as the platen moves to print ing position and before the platen moves the work sheet. 
 The work sheet holding means includes a lower pressure roll 60 (Figs. 11 and 15) journaled in the stationary side plates I8 and 25. Cooperating with the lower roll 60 is an upper pressure roll 6| journaled-in the ends of a pair of arms 62, one arm being on one side of the rocking platen frame and the other (Fig. 13) being on theother side of said frame, and both arms being pivoted on the shaft |3. The arms'B2 are urged counter-clockwise, as viewed in Fig. 10, about the shaft |3 by springs 63 (Figs. 10 and 13). This urging action is in a direction to cause the upper pressure roll 6| to engage the lower roll 60. 
 When the platen H1 is out of printing position as shown in Fig. 10, the upper pressure roll 6| is separated from the lower roll 60 so that the throat between the rolls is open to receive a front fed work sheet W. 
 The arms 62 carrying the upper roll 6| are held in the position of Fig. 13 by latches 65 of which there are two, one on each side of the ma chine (Figs. 10 and 13) but, since they are alike, 
 C only one will be described, namely, the one illustending arm 55 (Fig. 14) provided with a slot 51. 
a shoulder 64 over which a 69 is provided to This latch is one arm of a The other .arm 68 of this yokeurge the yoke clockwise as viewed in Fig. 13 to latched position. The latch 65 has a lateral lug Ill on it and an abutment II is positioned to engage this lug. This abutment is one arm of another yoke 12 pivoted on the stud 81. The yoke 12 is urged counter-clockwise by a spring 73 and it has a downwardly projecting arm 14 carrying an inclined lateral lug 15 which is positioned to engage a stationary stud 16 under certain conditions that will be described presently. 
 As the platen starts to move down toward printing position from the position of Fig. 13, the stud 61 moves with the rocking platen frame about the pivot l3. This moves the arm '14 of yoke 12 upwardly and the upper side of the inclined lug 15 engages the stud 16 which cams the arm 14 and its yoke 12 counter-clockwise. This moves the abutment "H and the latter lifts latch 65 which releases the arm 62 whereupon the spring 63 rocks the arm clockwise to quickly move the upper pressure roll 5| into engagement with the lower roll to firmly grip and hold the work sheet in position. 
 This action occurs before the platen engages the work sheet to disturb its position and is illustrated in Fig. 14. In this figure, the platen is shown in contact with the work sheet 25 and the work sheet bent slightly but the pressure rolls 6! and 60 have already engaged the work sheet and such engagement occurred slightly prior to the engagement ol the sheet by the platen. 
 As the platen continues its movement toward printing position, the stud B7 and the parts mounted on it continue to move about the pivot 13. The inclined lug 1'5 passes the stud "l6 and the yoke 12 with its abutment H are released for return to normal. When the platen reaches printing position the latch 65 is snapped over the shoulder 64 on the arm 62 by its spring 69 so that the arm 62 is again latched to the rocking platen frame. The spring 69 is stronger than spring 13 so that the latch moves to latching position even though it has to move abutment Tl, yoke 12, and arm 74 in so moving. 
When the platen is again moved out of printposition, the latch 65 holds the arm 62 so that the latter, together with the feed roll 6! is moved upwardly with the platen and the throat for the front-fed work sheet between rolls 6B and BI is automatically opened as the platen is raised. 
 As the platen moves out of printing position, the arm 74 on yoke 72 moves downwardly and the underside of the inclined lug 15 engages the top outsideof the stationary stud 16. This earns the yoke 72 clockwise (Fig. 13) and stretches the spring 13 but has no effect upon the latch 65. When the platen reaches its out-of-printing position, the parts occupy the position of Fig. 13 where they are ready for release when the platen is started on its movement toward printing position. 
 Again, it should be noted that the lever 25, which is used to move the platen to printing position, not only accomplishes this result but, acting through the platen frame, it also releases the mechanism that closes the ir0ntfeed throat. It also tilts the paper table as previously mentioned. Another point is that a front-feed throat, which is separate from the platen, is closed automatically prior to the time that the platen engages the work sheet so as to firmly hold the work sheet to prevent it from moving to an inaccurate linespace position as the platen moves to printing position. The pressure rolls 6fl-5l are prevented from rotating during this time by means which will be hereinafter described. Also, as the platen moves out of printing position, after being released, a throat, which is independent of the platen, is automatically opened. 
Stop for arresting work sheets A stop is provided for arresting the front-fed work sheet in proper position as it is inserted in the front-feed throat. This stop is automatically moved out of active position as the platen moves to printing position and after the front-lced throat is closed, provision being made for not moving the stop out of active position until after the front-feed throat has closed to grip the work sheet in the position in which it has been arrested by the stop. 
 The stop comprises an arm (Fig. 12) having a bent end 81, the arm being pivoted on a shaft 83 carried by stationary brackets 84. The stop 80-81 is urged counterclockwise, as viewed in Fig. 11, by a spring 85. The forward bent end 8| of the stop arm moves through an annular recess 86 (Fig. 12) in the upper pressure roll 6! in order to permit the stop to be positioned closely behind the front-feed throat. It is to be understood, of course, that the arm can be made of any suitable length and can be positioned to arrest the Work sheet in any required position suitable for the work for which the machine is built. 
 The stop arm 88 has a shoulder 87 (Fig. 12) which is positioned for engagement by a stud 88 on an arm 89 fixed to the cross member 45 Fig. 11.) of the rocking platen frame. 
 As the platen frame is rocked countereloek wise from its Fig. 10 to its Fig. 11 position, the stud 88 engages the shoulder 87 and swings the stop Bil-31 upwardly against the tension of spring 35. The parts are proportioned so that this engagement does not take place until after the pressure roll 61 has engaged the pressure roll iii] to grip the work sheet in position. In other words, the rolls Ell-6| are moved to closed .n'oat position while the stop 80-81 is holding the work sheet in proper line-spaced position, and, after the sheet has been gripped by rolls 60-43 I, the stop is moved out of the way so as to permit rearward feeding of the work sheet without interference from the stop. 
Control by No. 1 operation key After a bill or work sheet has been placed in position and the platen lowered to printing position, the amount of the payment is entered on the amount keys. The No. 1 operation key is then depressed. This results in conditioning the machine for operation. The machine may then be operated by means of the handle 7 or by an electric drive which is set into operation by depression of the No. 1 operation key. 
 Referring to Figs. 3 and 19, the stem of the No. 1 key is positioned so that, when the key is depressed, the stem engages the outer end of a lever 90 pivoted at 9i on a machine side plate. The lever 90 engages a stud 92 on an irregular shaped slide 93 mounted on a stud 94 on a side plate of the machine and on a shaft 95. This slide 93 has a rearwardly extending arm 95 positioned to engage a stud 97 on an arm 98 fixed to the shaft 95 which extends to the opposite side of the machine and controls the motor drive in such a way that, when arm 98 is rocked clockwise the motor is caused to give the machine a stroke of operation. When the No. 1 key is depressed the shaft 95 is rocked clockwise and hence depression of this key serves to cause the motor to give the machine a stroke of operation. 
 An interlock is provided between the No. 1 key and the platen ID in order to prevent the key from being fully depressed when the platen is out lililit] - wise by the spring 28 which also urges the slide the machine so that 29 (Fig. 10) to the left. The bell crank lever ldl has a rearwardly projecting arm I02 which is provided with an upwardly bent rear end positioned for engagement with a lateral lug 903 on the slide 29. 
 When the No. 1 key is depressed the link in!) is moved downwardly, the bell crank llil is rocked counter-clockwise, and the bent end of arm I02 moves up to the position of Fig. 3 where it is in the path of the lateral lug 903. If anattempt is made to pull the latch 24 forwardly, which would move the slide 29 rearwardly, the slide is blocked and the platen latch cannot be released. -When the No. 1 key is undepressed, the bent end of arm W2 is below the level of lug Hi3 which permits the platen release latch to be moved. But, if this latch is moved to released position, the lug Hi3 moves over the bent end of the arm H12 so that the bell crank lever llll cannot be fully rocked. Accordingly, the No. 1 key cannot be fully depressed while the platen release latch is released. 
 Depression of the No. 1 key also non-adds" during the first machine operation, the amount of the cash payment is not entered in the register. For this purpose, the stern of the No.- 1 key is arranged to engage a shoulder m on an arm Hi6 pivoted at di and urged counter-clockwise by a spring Hill. This arm has a downwardly projecting end or nose we (Fig. 19) positioned to engage a stud on the pawl, 
 IE8 and disable said pawl. This non-adds the machine in the manner described in detail in the Horton patent heretofore referred to. 
 From the description of the No. l key so far given, it will .be observed that its depression ac= complishes three results, namely (i) it conditions anihterlock to prevent platen beingreleased, (2) it places the machine in nomad condition, and (3) it causes. the motor to give the machine a stroke of operation. Depression of the key also conditions certain. other mecha= nism as will appear from the following description. 
' Work sheet feeding means Provision is made for feeding the work sheets rearwardly to a new printing position, and to a position'where the stub may be severed from the receipt portion of the sheet. This feeding movement is in a direction opposite to that in which the platen is moved during its line space movements, In fact, the work sheet is moved independently of the platen and while the latter is stationary in its printing position. 
An inserted work sheet is fed rearwardly by rotating the pressure rolls 60 and 6t that grip the sheet independently of the platen. 
Referring to Figs.'3-, 4 and 8, itwill be observed ,that the shaitot the lower pressure roll til has a toothed gear ill! fixed to it which meshes with an arcuate rack H I on the end of an arm H2 pivoted at 3 and urged clockwise (Fig. 3) by a spring H4. During the latter part of the machine operation under control of the No.- 1 key the arm H2 is rocked from the position oi Fig. 
v operation, that is, the operation with the No. 1 
3 so that of Fig. 4 which rotates the lower pressure roll 60 clockwise as viewed in Figs. 3 and 11. At this time the upper pressure roll 6! is pressing the work sheet into engagement with the lower roll and, as the latter is rotated, the work sheet is fed rearwardly to cut-off position. During this movement, the work sheet moves relative to the platen it but does not disturb the record sheet which is held in position about the platen'by the feed rollers M. The means for rocking the sector arm H2 is conditioned by depression of the No. 1 key as follows: 
 Pivoted on a stud i l5 (Fig. 3) on the side plate of the machine is a lever M6 whose front bifurcated end straddles a stud ill on the pivoted arm 90 (Fig. 19) which is rocked when the No. 1 key is depressed. The rear end of the lever H6 bears against a stud M8 on one arm of a yoke H9 pivoted at m on the sector arm H2 and urged clockwise by a spring l2l. 
 When the No. 1 key is depressed, the lever H6 is rocked counterclockwise which moves the rear end of the lever away from stud i it and releases the yoke i iii to enable the same to move clockwise .under the influence of spring ill from its Fig. l 
to its Fig. 3 position. 
 The machine is provided with a main driving cam i122 (Fig. 3) fixed to the drive shaft 6. Connected to this cam is a link I23 which is also connected to a pivoted bell crank lever Q24 that operates certain parts of the machine as described in said Horton patent. The link W3 is moved rearwardly during the forward stroke of. the 
machine and returned forwardly during the return stroke. 
 Pivoted on the link H3 is an irregular shaped link H5 extending rearwardly to where it is pivotally connected to the end of an arm E26 pivoted at Ml. This arm carries a stud 92d adapted to engage a shoulder i229 on another arm of the yoke Mil. 
 When the yoke lid is in the position of Fig. l, the arm having shoulder M9 on it ,is above the path of stud M8 and said stud will not engage the shoulder during an operation of the machine. 
.But, when the No. 1 control key is depressed, the 
yoke i 59 moves clockwise to the position of Fig. 3. During the forward stroke of the machine with the No. 1 key depressed, the stud ltd moves rearwardly to its Fig. 3 position, the Fig. 3 position being that at the end of the forward stroke. Upon the return stroke of the machine, the stud 11% moves forward, engages the shoulder I29 and, 
. since the yoke lid is pivoted to the sector arm iii, moves the sector arm counterclockwise from v the position of Fig. 3 to that of Fig. 4;. This feeds the work sheet rearwardly to a new printing position and to cut-0d position. 
 lit will be appreciated that, during the forward stroke of .the next machine operation, the stud 628 will be moved rearwardly again and, if no means were provided to prevent it, the sector arm M2 would return from its Fig. d to its Fig. 3 position under the tension of its spring H4. But it is not desired to have the sector returned to this position, as that would return the work sheet forwardly again, whereas, it is desired to retain the work sheet in its rearward position to enable the second printing impression to be made on it and to enable the stub to be cut off. 
Accordingly, a latching means is provided for which it has been moved during the first machine key depressed. 
' control rod I42. 
 As the sector moves to its Fig. 4 position, a bell erank-shaped latch I pivoted at I3I, and urged counterclockwise by a spring I32, snaps over a stud I33 on the sector arm i I2 and latches the sector in the position to which it has been moved. This keeps the work sheet in its rearward position until the latch is released, which occurs automatically near the end of the second machine operation, that is, the operation with the No. 2 key depressed, as will be described later. 
 It will be observed that, as the work sheet moves rearwardly from the rolls B0 and BI, it passes into a guide chute formed by a lower plate I35 and an upper plate l3E (Fig. 11). The upper plate is carried by the movable platen frame and moves away from the lower plate as the platen moves out of printing position. This opens the chute to permit removal of papers or any obstruc tions that may accidentally get into it. 
Repeat control of keys As previously mentioned, it is desirable to have the amount keys remain depressed in order to print the amount of the payment a second time and in order to enter it in a register since, during the first machine operation, the machine is nonadded. 
 The calculating machine illustrated is provided with a mechanism, described in said Horton patent, for releasing the amount keys near the end of each machine operation unless the machine is otherwise conditioned. This release is effected as follows: 
 A latch plate I is provided for each bank of keys and each of these latch plates is connected at its forward end to a zero stop I4I. These zero stops are controlled by a control rod I42 that extends across the front of the machine. As will be observed from Fig. 4, the zero stops I4I have slots in their ends slightly wider than the diameter of the control rod I42. When a key is depressed, its stem engages a cam face I43 on its latch plate and cams the plate rearward, which slight movement is permitted by a wide slot in the zero stop fr that bank. After the key has been depressed, the latch plate moves forward again under the influence of its spring I44 and latches the depressed key in position. All the latch plates are normally released near the end of a machine operation by moving the control rod I42 forward which moves all the latch plates rearward. The control rod is moved forward by means of a sliding and rocking plate I45 which pivots and slides on a stationary stud, 
 I48 on the machine frame. cam I22 has a stud I4'I rear end of the slide I45 rest. 
 During the forward stroke of the machine, the stud I41 moves away from the slide I45, whereupon a spring I01 moves the slide rearwardly and rocks it upwardly, the slide moving about the stud I46 as a pivot. This moves a shoulder I50 immediately to the rear of a roller I5I on the Near the end of the return stroke of the machine, the stud I41 again engages the slide I45 and moves it forwardly. As the slide moves forward, the shoulder I50 moves the control rod I42 forwardly Which swings the zero stops forward and moves the latches I40 rearward to release the depressed keys. As the machine operation is completed, the shoulder I50 slides off the roller I5I to its normal position. 
The usual manner of preventing the keys from The main driving normally engaging the when the machine is at accuses being released is to prevent the slide Mli from swinging upwardly about the stud Mt to the full limit of its movement so that, when it is moved forward during the latter part of the machine operation instead of its shoulder ltitl bcing positioned to the rear of control rod Mil, a second shoulder I52 is positioned to the rear of said rod. When the slide M5 is moved forward, the rod H2 is then pushed far enough forward to prevent the keys from being completely locked, but not far enough to release them. In other words, the keys are changed from absolute locked condition to a latched condition. A special con trol is provided in the present case as follows: 
 The arm 9U, which is moved downward by de pression of the No. 1 key, carries a stud ltlil positioned above the end of one arm of a bell crank lever lli l pivoted at I55 on a machine side plate. This bell crank lever has a stud lbli adapted to engage the edge of slide K45. 
 When the No. 1 key is in its raised position shown in Fig. l, the stud i555 is above the end of the bell crank lever I54 and the latter does not interfere with the normal operation of the slide above described because the bell crank iii t is 1' free to rock when the slide is rocked. 
 But, when the No. 1 key is depressed, the stud flit not only moves into engagement with the end of bell crank I54, but it rocks the bell crank to rock the slide I45 counterclockwise slightly 1 past its normal; position, namely, from. its Fig. 1 to its Fig. 4 position. The forward end of the slide is provided with a third shoulder lliil in this case and this third shoulder is positioned in front of the control rod l42 when the No. l 1 
key is depressed as above described. 
 With the parts in this condition (Figs. i and 6), the slide I45 is held against rocking about the stud I46 during the operation of the machine. Near the end of the return stroke, the stud l4'l engages the end of slide I45 and moves it forwardly, but the shoulder I5? is so constructed that it will not move the control rod with the result that the latch plates for the keys are not moved and the keys remain locked in depressed condition, that is, they remain absolutely locked and cannot be depressed or released. 
 This locking of the keys also results in locking the No. 1 operation key in depressed condition and, at first glance, it might be thought that this would cause the machine to be given a second stroke of operation because depression of the No. 1 operation key sets the machine into opcration. But the parts are proportioned so that, 
when the'No. 1 operation key is released of finger pressure after being depressed, it can move up slightly even though it is locked against full return movement. This upward movement is enough to prevent it from keeping the motor controlling parts in condition for giving the machine a second stroke of operation, with the result that the machine stops after it has been given one stroke. 
 Referring again to the No. 1 operation key, it will be noted that depression of this key controls five different things as follows: 
 1. It conditions an interlock for preventing the platen from being released. 
2. It places the machine in non-add condition. 
 3. It conditions the mechanism for enabling the work sheet feeding means to be operated. 
 4. It conditions mechanism for preventing release of the depressed amount keys so that the item will be repeated. 
5. It sets the machine into operation. 
(ill 
 board section. 
No. 2 operation key In the-embodiment of the invention illustrated, 
the second operation of the machine is initiated by depressing the No. 2 operation key. 
, At first glance, it might be thought that, at. this time, the No. 2 operation key would be lockedagainst depression because, at the end of the operation under control of the N6. 1 key, the latch plates 'for the keys are allowed to remain in locking condition. Provision has been made for enabling the No. 2 operation key to be depressed under these conditions by providing a special cam face I58 on the projection I59 that controls the locking of the No. 2 key. This cam face is cut further back, as shown on Fig. 18. so that, although the plate I40 is in position for lock ng all the other keys against depression, it does not lock the No. 2 operation key. In other words, the No. 2 operation key is free for depression at all times. 
 When the No. 2 operation key is depressed, it automatically moves the latch plate M'i for the No. 1 key to released position and releases the No. 1 key so that the controls conditioned by the No. 1 key are removed from the control of said key. This means that the machine returns to add condition. Also, the repeat control of the keys is released because the bell crank I54 (F g. 1) is freed from stud I53 to enable the slide I45 to move normally to release the key latches during the machine operation. 
 The stem of the No. 2 operation key engages a ledge I60 (Fig. 8)on the slide 245, and moves said slide downwardly so that the upper end of its slot 246 engages the stud 93 on the slide 93, thereby moving the slide 93 downward slightly from the lowered position in which it was held by the No. 1 key after the latter raised slightly when finger pressure on it was released. This downward movement of the slide 245 imparts the slight clockwise movement to the arm- 38 necessary to set the machine into operation in the same manner as did the No. 1 operation key. The No. 2 operation key after being fully depressed to start the machine into operation has a slight return upward movement the same as does the No. 1 operation key, so that the machine will make only one operation with the No. 2 key depressed, the same as there was only one machine operation with the No. 1 operation key depressed. 
The slide 245 is urged upwardly by a spring 241 connected at one end to the slide 2&5 and at its other end to a stud 248 projecting from the key- The slide 245 is guided for up and down movement bv a slot 249 engaging the shaft 9d and the slot 2% engaging the stud 93 on the slide 93. 
 Depression oi the No. 2 key also retains in condition the interlock with the platen release lever 2A in the same manner as the No. 1 key heretofore described. 
 An advantage of this that the platen cannot be moved out of printing position and the front feed throat opened until after the machine has been put through the necessary operations. In other words, after the No. 1 operation key has been depressed the platen is locked in printing position and the front feed throat is locked .closed. It cannot be opened 0 while the No. 1 key is depressed and i cannot be opened when the No. 2 key is depressed until after the No. 2 mach ne operation has been completed. 
' This prevents fraudulent alteration of the entries after the No. 1 operation key has been depressed. Depression of the No. 2 key does not move the interlock to be noted is arm I06 downwardly to disable the pawl I08 which disablement results in non-adding the machine. Accordingly, during operation of the machine under the control of a No. 2 key, the item on the amount keys is added into the register. 
 Depression of the No. 2 operation key also conditions for operation which will now be described. 
 Cut-017 mechanism Means is provided for automatically cutting the stubs from the receipt portion of the worktensions I1II positioned in the bifurcated ends of arms I1I fixed to a rock shaft I12. When this shaft is rocked counterclockwise as viewed in Fig. 15, the blade I65 is moved downward to cut the stub from the receipt portion of the work sheet which has been moved rearward as already described. 
 The cut-off mechanism is actuated by the operating means of the machine. The link I23 (Fig. 3) which is moved rearwardly during the forward stroke of the machine and returned for- L wardly during the return stroke, is connected to a bell crank lever I24 as previously mentioned. 
the cut-off mechanism and one of which is The bell crank I24 operates an arm I13 (Figs. 8" 
and 9) which, in the machine of the Horton patent referred to, operates certain portions of the printing mechanism. During each machine operation', the arm I13 is first rocked clockwise (Fig. 9) and then returned counterclockwise. This arm is one part of a yoke I14 pivoted on a staticnary. machine stud I15 which yoke has two arms I18 and I11 forming a fork engaging over a stud I18 (Figs. 9 and 15) which is carried by an arm I of another yoke that operates the printing mechanism as described in said Horton patent. The parts so far described are those used to operate the printing mechanism but, since an understanding of its details is not necessary, no further description will be given here. The point to keep in mind is that the stud I18 which operthe cut-off mechanism as well as the line spacing mechanism for the platen as will now be described. 
 Pivoted on the stationary shaft I15 (Fig. 15) is' a yoke I having one arm I82 engaging under the stud I18 and another arm I83 projecting upwardly to where it is pivoted to a stud I8 1. The 
stud iM carries a pendant I85 having a curved notch E86 adapted to engage the stud I18 and a rear cam face comprising a raised portion I81 and an inclined portion I88. 
When the parts are in their normal position, 
' and during operation of the machine with the No. 1 operation key depressed, the pendant member occupies the position illustrated in Fig. 15 where, it will be observed, the curved notch I86 does not engage the stud I18. Accordingly, when the stud is rocked clockwise and then returned counterclockwise during a machine operation, the pendant member is not moved. 
 However, when the No. 2 operation key is depressed, the pendant IE5 is rocked to position for engaging the stud Iltl. This is accomplished through connections from the slide 245 (Fig. 8). The slide 245 has a rear arm I99 connected by a pin and slot connection to one end of a lever I9I pivoted at I92. The rear end of this arm extends upward and carries a stud I93 (Fig. positioned under one arm I94 of a yoke I95 pivoted on a shaft I99 supported by the machine side frames. The other arm I97 of this yoke carries a stud I98 that is adapted to cooperate with the cam faces I0! and I88 on the pendant I85. 
 When the No. 2 key is depressed, the lever I9! is rocked counterclockwise which raises stud I93, rocks yoke I95 coimterclockwise, and swings pendant I85 into engagement with stud H8. Then when the stud I18 is rocked upward, it rocks the pendant I85 together with arm I83 of yoke I81 clockwise about the shaft I as a pivot. The stud I18 engaging arm I82 insures that the parts are returned during the return movement of stud IIH The stud I84 to which the arm I83 NH and to which the pendant member pivoted is secured to a link 209 which extends rcarwar-dly and is connected to an arm Bill that is attached to the rock shaft I12 of the cut-oif mechanism. Accordingly, when the machine is operated, the stud I84 and the parts associated with it are rocked which causes a rearward movement of the link 200 and a rocking of the rock shaft I12. 
 It will thus be clear that, during the second operation of the machine, that is, the operation with the No. 2 operation key depressed, the cutoil mechanism will be automatically operated during the forward stroke of the machine to cut the stub from the receipt portion of the bill, after which the cutting mechanism will be returned to normal during the return stroke. 
 As the stubs S (Fig. l) are cut on", they fall into a container 202 (Fig. l) which is closed by a lid 203 provided with a lock 204 controlled by a key 205. At the end of the day, the manager may take out the stubs and compare their total with the cash in the cash drawer. 
of yoke I85 are Line spacing mechanism for platen and record sheet The platen ID with which the feed roll 4'! cooperates to hold and feed the record sheet, is automatically line spaced during the second operation of the machine, that is, the operation with the No. 2 key depressed. 
 Referring to Fig. 9, it will be observed that the platen is provided with a toothed ratchet wheel 2 It? on its end with which cooperates a feed pawl 2H carried by an arm 2I2 pivoted on a shaft 2I3 which moves with the platen assembly as the lat tcr moves to and from printing position. The feed pawl 2II isurged into engagement with the ratchet 2I0 by a spring 2M and the arm 2I2 carrying the feed pawl is urged clockwise by a spring 2I5. The arm 2I2 has a stud 2I5 operating in an L-shaped slot 2I'I in the link 298. 
 During the operation of the machine under control of the No. 1 key, the link 200 is not moved because, as already explained, the pendant I85 (Fig. 15) is in an inactive position. Howover, during the operation under control of the No. 2 key, the link 200 is first moved rearwardly, or to the right in Fig. 9, and then returned to the left. As the link 200 moves to the right (Fig. (ll, the left hand end of the horizontal portion of the slot 2i? engages the stud 2I6 and rocks the arm 2I2 counterclockwise to pull the feed pawl 2H backward one tooth space against the tension of the spring 2I5. During the return movement to the left of link 200, the right hand end (Fig. 9) of the horizontal portion of slot 2!? engages the stud 2 I6 and pushes the pawl 2 II forward to rotate the platen I0 one line space. This line spaces the record sheet independently of the work sheet, because, at this time, the work sheet is held by the pressure rolls 60 and HI. 
 In this manner the platen is automatically line spaced during the return stroke of the second machine operation, that is, the operation under the control of the No. 2 key. 
 The line spacing mechanism does not interfere with the movements of the platen to and from printing position. The normal position of the stud M9 in the slot 2I'I is illustrated in Fig. 15. When the platen is raised, this stud moves in the vertical portion of the slot 2 without affecting the link 200 and, of course, when the platen is returned to printing position the stud returns to the position in Fig. 15. 
Automatic movement of platen to open throat position Near the end of the second machine opera tion, and after the amount of the payment has been printed on the bill and the stub cut oil, 
the platen is automatically moved upward out of printing position to open throat position so that the receipt may be readily removed. The parts are then in position to receive a second work I sheet or bill. 
 It will be recalled that the platen is urged out of printing position by the spring I5 and that, as the platen moves out of printing position, it carries the pressure roll BI upward to open the throat between the rolls 60 and GI. The platen is normally latched in printing position by the latch 24. 
 The platen latch 24 may be moved to released position by the slide 29 (Fig. 10). This slide carries a stud 220 (Figs. 4 and 17) positioned in the forked end of the arm 22I of a yoke 222 which is pivoted on a machine stud 223. This yoke has another arm 224 to which is pivoted a latch 225 urged clockwise by the spring I32 which The latch 225 has a shoulder urges latch I30. 226 (Fig. 8) which, under certain conditions, is positioned in the path of a stud 227 on the member I28 that first moves rearwardly and is then returned forwardly during each machine operation. The latch 225 is normally held out of the path of stud 221 by means of a stud 22B (Figs. 7 and 15) on the arm I94 of yoke I95 which, it will be recalled, is under the control of the No. 2 operation key. The stud 228 normally engages a ledge or lateral lug 229 (Fig. 4) on the latch 225 to hold the latch out of the path of the stud 227. 
 But, when the No. 2 operation key is depressed, the yoke I95 (Fig. 15) is rocked counterclockwise which raises the stud 228 away from the ledge 229 on latch 225. This enables the latch 227 to be moved by its spring so that the shoulder 226 moves into the path of the stud 221 on member I29. During the forward stroke of the second machine operation, the stud 22? moves rearwardly and does not affect the latch 225 but, near the end of the return stroke, the stud 22'! engages the shoulder 226 which rocks the yoke 222 clockwise, moves the slide 29 rearwardly and releases the aoeasso platen latch whereupon the platen automatically moves out of printing position to an open throat position and the pressure rolls (5b and iii are automatically separated to their open throat position. 
 It is to be observed that this platen release does not occur until after the line spacing mechanism for the platen has operated to line space the platen so that the stud 2 l2 (Fig. 9) is in the position of'Fig. where it may move upwardly in. the vertical portion of slot rill. 
Automatic return of work sheet feeding means to nor-moi it will be recalled that the pressure rolls till-lil were rotated by the sector ill to iced the work sheet rearwardly to a second printing position and to a position where the stub could be cut from the receipt portion of the sheet. It will also be recalled that the sector ill was latched in position by a latch (kill (Fig. 4) which engaged over a stud Mill on the sector arm M2. Provision is made for automatically releasing the sector ill to enable it to return to normal under the influence of its spring Md during which return it rotates the pressure roll til in a direction to feed the work sheet forwardly although said sheet is not actually i'ed forwardly because the release of the sector occurs at the same time that the platen is released and, when the platen is released, the upper pressure roll ti is moved away from the lower roll till so that these rolls do not hold the work sheet in feeding engagement. But this does not hinder the ready removal of the work sheet because the end of the sheet is in position where it may be grasped by the operator. 
 The sector arm M2 isreleased by the move ment of the latch 225 during the latter part of the return stroke of movement of the machine' operation that takes place under the control of the No. 2 key. For this purpose the latch 225 has a lateral lug 2% (Fig. 4) positioned to engage a-downwardly extending arm of the latch E30. As the latch 22%": is pulled forward by the stud 221?, the lug 23d engages the arm on latch l3fl and. rocks the latch Edd clockwise to release the'sector arm which thereupon moves immediately to its normal position under the influence of its spring ti l. 
 In this connection it is to be observed that provision has been made for automatically preventing interference between the stud H8 and the shoulder (I29 during the operation under control of the No. 2 key. It will be remembered that the stud 52% moves rearward and returns forward during each machine operation and that, during the return movement under the No. 1 machine operation, stud R23 engages shoulder M9 to move the sector arm M2 to its Fig. 4 position where it is latched by the stud H3 engaging the shoulder of latch ltd. The release of this latch takes place during the latter part ofthe No. 2 machine operation. But, during the latter part of this No. 2 operation, the stud I28 is returning forward and unless prevented, it would block the return of sector arm M2 to normal by engaging shoulder i253. 
 To prevent this, the yoke H9 on whose arm the shoulder no is located, has another arm 24o carrying a stud 24!. This stud is positioned to engage the end of a, pivoted pawl 242 (Fig. 8) urged clockwise by a spring 243. 
 As the sector arm till with the yoke H9 is rocked to its 4 position near the end of the return stroke or" the No. 1 machine operation, 
the stud 24 i engages the end of pawl tilt. and 
rocks said pawl against the tension of spring to the position of Fig. 4. During the forward stroke of the No. 2 machine operation, the stud H28 moves away from shoulder 'llflil and frees the yoke l whereupon the tension of spring acting through pawl 25?, stud 2M and arm rocks the yoke to the position of Fig. 8 where the shoulder is above the path of stud i253. Ac cordingly, when the sector arm l i2 is released as above explained, it can returnto normal because shoulder we is held above stud H28 long enough to permit the shoulder to pass over the stud. 
Date printing Provision is made for the printing of dates on the bill and on the stub by means of a date-print ing mechanism shown in Fig. 11. An understanding oi the details of this mechanism is not necessary for an understanding of the present invention and no description has been considered necessary. Any suitable form of date printing mechanism can be employed. 
Autographz'c register feature Provision is made for enabling the operator to make autographic notations on the record strip opposite various printed entries. 
 Referring to Figs. 10 and 11, it. will be seen that the record strip passes over a flat plate or table positioned above the platen and carried by the platen frame. This table moves with the platen as the latter is moved into and out of printing position. 
 When the platen is out of printing position the table occupies the position of Fig. 10 where the operator may conveniently write suitable notations on the record strip. Pressure of a pencil on the table does not move the platen toward printing position because the latter is held in its upward position by a toggle mechanism which must be broken by the handle 2!! before the platen will move downwardly. 
Using machine as an adding-listing machine For the purpose of adding-listing work, the 
following operations are not wanted: 
1. Two operations are not desirable. 
2. Repeat control of the keys is not wanted. 
 3. Moving an inserted work sheet rearwardly to cub-off position is not desirable. 
 4. The platen should not automatically move out of printing position after a machine operation. 
 5. The front-feed throat should not be automatically opened after a machine operation. 
 What is wanted is to be able to enter items on the amount keys, and to give the machine a single stroke of operation which will result in printing the items and entering them on a register, the platen and paper remaining in printing position during the printing operation, but being automatically line spaced after each operation. 
 Provision has been made for enabling addinglisting work to be done by simply depressing the No. 2 operation key instead of the No. l operation key. Or, to put it another way, by simply disregarding the No. 1 operation key and using the No. 2 key as a motor bar. The listing may be done on the record strip or on an in sorted. sheet. 
 With respect to a single machine operation, it will be recalled that the No. 2 operation key, when depressed, moves a slide 245 (Fig. 8) downwardly. This slide is connected by a stud 94 to the motor control slide 93 so that the latter is moved downwardly when the No. 2 key is depressed whereby the machine is given a stroke of operation. When finger pressure on the No. 2 key is released it moves upwardly slightly and this allows the plate 93 to return far enough so that the machine is given only one stroke of operation. 
 With respect to the repeat condition of the amount keys, it will be recalled that the No. 2 operation key normally frees or releases the repeat mechanism that has been conditioned by the No. 1 key. Inasmuch as the No. 1 key is not depressed under the conditions now being described, the repeat mechanism will not be set. The No. 2 key will not set it and the amount keys are returned to normal after each machine operation. 
 As for the rearward feeding of the work sheet to cut-off position, it will be recalled, by referring to the description of the No. 1 operation key, that the mechanism for feeding the work sheet rearwardly is conditioned by depression of the No. 1 key. The No. 1 key must move a lever H6 to condition certain parts so that operation of the machine will actuate the meohanismjor feeding the work sheet rearward. But the No. 2 operation key does not move the lever I I6, consequently, it a machine operation is initiated by depression of the No. 2 key, the mechanism for moving the work sheet rearwardly will not be conditioned and no such movement of the work sheet will occur. 
 The automatic release of the platen and associated mechanism, which results in automatically opening the front feed throat and. moving the platen out of printing position, normal- 1y operates after a machine operation with the No. 2 operation key depressed. For example, when the No. 2 key is depressed the yoke 1l95 (Figs. 15 and 16) is rocked to move the stud 22B away'from a ledge 229 (Fig. 4) on a latch 225. The latch 225 then moves up so that its shoulder 226 is in the path of a stud 221 on a member I26 that moves forward and then returns rearward during each machine operation. With the parts so conditioned, the latch 225 is moved by stud 221 to release the platen as heretofore described. 
 But provision has been made to prevent the latch 225 from moving to a position where its shoulder 228 is in the path of the stud 221 when the latch 225 is released by depression of the No. 2 operation key when this key is depressed before the No. 1 operation key has been depressed. 
 When the machine is in normal condition before being operated (Fig. 1) a stud I20, on which the yoke H9 is pivoted, is adjacent the end of the latch 225 as best shown in Fig. 3. This stud I20 is provided with an extension, that is, it is elongated so that it engages over the nose of latch 225, as shown in Fig. 3, and prevents clockwise movement of the latter. This stud I20 is carried by the sector arm II2 that is moved to' feed the work sheet rearwardly. But, when the No. 2 key is depressed without the No. 1 key having been previously depressed, this arm H2 is not moved forwardly because, as just explained above, the No. 1 key must be depressed in order to move lever I Hi to condition the parts to cause the sector arm H2 to be moved. Consequently, 
the stud I20 does not move away from the latch I25 when the No. 2 key is depressed and the latch 225 is prevented from moving clockwise when the stud 228 releases it upon depression of the No. 2 key. This means that the shoulder 226 is not in the path of the stud 221 and, consequently, the latch 225 will not be pulled by the stud to release the platen. 
 Line spacing occurs automatically when the No. 2 key is depressed in a manner heretofore described, that is, the line spacing mechanism is enabled and, during the latter part of the machine operation upon depression of the No. 2 key, the platen is rotated a step. During this line spacing movement the cut-off mechanism operates but this is an idle operation since the work sheet has not been moved rearwardly. 
 From the above it will be seen that. due to the particular arrangement, combination, and construction of the parts, the machine can be used as an ordinary adding-listing machine by simply using the No. 2 key as a motor bar. This is a very decided advantage because it provides a machine that is capable of performing the cash receipting operations heretofore dcscribed and yet, at the same time, it can be used as an ordinary adding-listing machine without requiring any additions or changes. 
Operation Although the operation of the machine should be clear from the description heretofore given, a brief resume will be made. 
 Under normal conditions, the platen II! is out of printing position, as illustrated in Figs. 1 and l0 and the pressure rolls (ill and El are in openthroat position so that a work sheet may be readily inserted in the machine. Also, under normal conditions, the record strip is about the platen ready to receive the various entries that are made on the individual work sheets. 
 The operator inserts a work sheet in the machine, which is an easy operation as the frontfeed throats are open, the paper table is in a position to guide the sheet horizontally under the platen, and the stop BIL-BI is in position to arrest the sheet in proper position. Having inserted the sheet the operator pulls the handle 2i forward which moves the platen toward printing position. As this happens the throat between rolls BIL-4| is automatically closed to grip the work sheet and this gripping takes place prior to the engagement of the platen with the work sheet. This holds the work sheet firmly in position as the platen moves to printing position. When the platen reaches printing position it is latched by the latch 24 and, during the platen movement, the stop 80-431 1 or arresting the work sheet has been automatically moved to inactive position so that the work sheet can be fed rearwardly during operation of the machine. 
 The No. 1 operation key is then depressed which causes the machine to be given a stroke of operation. Depression of this key places the machine in non-add condition, it conditions the repeat" mechanism for keeping the amount key depressed, it conditions an interlock with the platen, and it conditions the mechanism that controls the feeding action of the work sheet pressure rolls fill-5|. 
 During the No. l'., 'operation of the machine, the amount entered o, the keys is printed on the bill or work sheet andreproduced on the record strip. Near the end ofvthis machine operation, and after printing has occurred, the sector arm I I2 is rocked and the pressure roll 60 is rotated to return to normal. 
actress move the work sheet to a new printing position and to a position where the stub may be cut from the receipt. This movement is independent of the platen and in a direction opposite to the line spacing movements of the platen. After the machine has completed its operation it stops. 
 The operator then depresses the No. 2 key which causes a second or No. 2 operation. Depression of the No. 2 key reieases the No. i key; it leaves the machine in addition condition; it releases the repeat mechanism so that, at the end of the No. 2 operation, the keys are released; it conditions the interlock with the platen; and it conditions the parts so that, during the machine operation, the cut-off mechanism is automatically operated and the platen is line spaced to move the record strip while the work sheet is held. Depres sion of this key also conditions certain parts so that, during the latter part of this second machine operation, the platen is automatically released and the sector i ii is automatically released to During the No. 2 operation the printing mechanism operates to print the payment a second time, but, this time, the amount is printed on the receipt. The relative location of the two imprints is shown by the entry fJan. $2.50 Pd on the work sheet as illustrated in Fig. 2. During the second printing operation the amount is again reproduced on the record sheet but, since this sheet is not line spaced until after the second printing operation, the second impression is over the first so that only one impression appears on the record sheet. This double printing on the record sheet makes a better impression than would a single imprint. The record sheet thus contains a very clear record. 
 When the platen is released it automatically moves out of printing position to open-throat position and, at the same time, automatically opens the throat between the pressure rolls 60 and iii. lihis frees the work sheet for ready removal and enables another to be inserted. 
 It is tobe understood that the structure shown is for purposes of illustration and that variations may be made in it without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. 
I claim: 
 1. In a machine of the class described, a printing mechanism, a platen, means cooperating with said platen to form a holding means for holding work sheets in printing position relative to said printing mechanism, said holding means being movable from closed to open throat position and vice versa, a second work sheet holding means independent of said platen for receiving and holding said work sheets, said independent work sheet holding means being movable from closed to open throat position and vice versa, and means operable-to simultaneously move both of said holding means to open throat position. 
 2. In a machine of the class described, a printing mechanism, a platen, means cooperating with said platen to form a holding means for holding Work sheets in printing position relative to said printing mechanism, said holding means being movable from closed to open throat position and vice versa, a second holding means independent of said platen for receiving and holding said work sheets, said independent work sheet holding means being movable from closed to open throat position and vice versa, and means acting automatically during a predetermined machin'e operation to move both of said holding means to open throat position. 
 3. In a machine of the class described, a printing mechanism, a platen, means cooperating with said platen to form a holding means for holding work sheets in printing position relative to said printing mechanism, said holding means being movable from closed to open throat position and vice versa, a second holding means independent of said platen for receiving and holding said work sheets, said independent work sheet holding means being movable from closed to open throat position and vice versa, and means for moving both of said Work sheet holding means to closed throat position, said first work sheet holding means having connections for controlling the movement of said independ out work sheet holding means to closed throat position. 
 i. In a machine of the class described, a printing mechanism, a platen, means cooperating with said platen to form a holding means for holding work sheets in printing position relative to said platen, said holding means being movable from open to closed throat position and vice versa, a second work sheet holding means independent of said platen for holding said work sheets, said independent work sheet holding means being movable from closed to open throat position and vice versa, and a single means operable to move both of said work sheet holding means to closed throat position. 
 5. In a machine of the class described, a printing mechanism, a platen, means cooperating with said platen to form a holding means for holding work sheets in printing position relative to said printing mechanism, said holding means bein movable from closed to open throat position and vice versa, a second work sheet holding means independent of said platen for holding said work sheets. said independent work sheet holding means being movable from closed to open throat position and vice versa, and means operable by a single lever for moving both of said work sheet holding means to closed throat position. 
 6. In a machine of the class described, a printing mechanism, a platen, means cooperating with said platen to form a holding means for holding work sheets in printing position relative to said printing mechanism, said holding means being movable from closed to open throat position and vice versa, a second work sheet holding means independent of said platen for holding said work sheets, said independent work sheet holding means being movable from closed to open throat position and vice versa, and means for moving both of said Work sheet holding" means to closed throat position including portions operable to cause one of said work sheet holding means to be moved ,to closed throat position prior to the other to enable the inserted work sheet to be held by said closed hold ng means to prevent it being disturbed by said other holding means. 
, "I. In a machine of the class described, a printing mechanism, a platen, means cooperating with said platen to form a holding means for holding work sheets in printing position relative to said printing mechanism, said holding means being movable from closed to open throat position and vice versa between said platen and said work sheet holding means, a second work sheet holding means independent of said platen for holding said work sheets, said-independent work sheet holding means being movable from closed to open throat position and vice versa, means for moving said work sheet holdin means from open to closed throat position, and means controlled by said first named work sheet holding means as it moves to closed throat position for causing said independent work sheet holding means to be moved to closed throat position prior to said first work sheet holding means. 
 8. In a machine of the class described, a printing mechanism, a platen movable from printing position relative to said printing mechanism to a front-feed position and vice versa, means for holding a record sheet about said platen so'that said sheet will move with said platen as the lat ter is moved from printing to front-feed posi tion and vice versa, means independent of said platen for receiving and holding work sheets, said work sheet holding means being movable from closed to open throat position and vice versa, means for moving said platen to frontfeed position, and mechanism acting automatically, as said platen is moved out of printing position, to move said independent work sheet holding means to open throat position. 
 9. In a machine of the class described, a printing mechan sm, a platen movable from printing position relative to said printing mechanism to a front feed position and vice versa, means for holding a record sheet about said platen so that said sheet will move with the platen as the lat ter is moved from printing to front-feed position and vice versa, means separate from said platen for receiving and holding work sheets, said work sheet holding means being movable from closed to open throat position and vice versa, and means acting automatically during a predetermined operation of said machine for moving said platen to front-feed position and simultaneously moving said separate work sheet holding means to open throat position. 
 10. In a machine of the class described, a printing mechanism, a platen movable from printing position relative to said printing mechanisrn to a front-feed position and vice versa, means for holding a record sheet about said. platen so that said sheet will move with said platen as the latter is moved from printing to front-feed position and vice versa, means independent of said platenfor receiving and holding work sheets, said work sheet holding means being movable from closed to open throat position and vice versa, means for moving said platen to front-feed position, and connections operated by said platen as the latter is moved out of printing position for moving said independent work sheet holding means to open throat position. 
 11. In a machine of the class described, a printing mechanism, a platen movable from printing position relative to said printing mech- 'anism to front-feed position and vice versa, means for holding a record sheet about said platen so that said sheet will move with said platen as the latter is moved from printing to front-feed position and vice versa, a set of pres-- sure rolls independent of said platen for receiving and holding work sheets, means for moving said platen from printing to front-feed position, and connections between said platen and one of said pressure rolls for separating said roll from its companion roll as the platen is moved out of printing position. 
 12. In a machine of the class described, a printing mechanism, a platen movable from printing position relative to said printing mechanism to front-feed position and vice versa, means independent of said platen for receiving and holding work sheets, said means being mov able from closed to open throat position and vice versa and being in open throat position when said platen is in front-feed position, and means for moving said platen from front-feed to printing position and said independent work sheet holding means to closed throat position. 
 13. In a machine of the class described, a printing mechanism, a platen movable from printing position relative to said printing mechanism to a front-feecl position and vice versa, means for holding a record sheet about said platen so that said sheet will move with said platen as the latter is moved from printing to front-feed position and vice versa, means inde pendent of said platen for receiving ancl holding work sheets, said worksheet holding means being movable from closed to open throat position and vice versa and being in open throat position when said platen is in front-feed position, and means operable by a single lever for moving, saidplaten to printing position and said independent work sheet holding means to closed throat position. 
 14.111 a machine of the class described, a printing mechanism, a platen movable from printing position relative to said printing mech anism to a front-feed position and vice versa, means independent of said platen for receiving and holding work sheets, said means being mov- I able from closed to open throat position and vice versa and being in open throat position when said. platen is in front-feed position, and means operable to move said platen to printing position and said work sheet holding means to closed throat position, said last named means including portions acting to move said independent work sheet holding means to closed throat position to grip the inserted work sheet prior to movement of said work sheet by said platen as it moves to printing position. 
 15. In a machine of the class described, a printing mechanism, a platen movable from printing position relative to said printing meehanism to a front-feed position. and vice versa, meansindependent of said platen for receiving and holding work sheets, said means being movable from closed to' open throat position and vice versa and being in open throat position when said platen is in front-feed position, means for moving said platen to printing position, and means controlled by the movement of said platen toward printing position for causing said independent work sheet holding means to be automatically moved to closed throat position. 
 16. In a machine of the class described, a printing mechanism, a platen movable from printing position relative to said printing mechanism to a front-feed position and vice versa, means independent of said platen for receiving and holding work sheets, said means being movable from closed to open throat position and vice versa, means urging said work sheet holding means to clpsed throat position, a latch for bold ing said work sheet holding means in open throat position, and means for moving said platen to printing position and for releasing said latch. 
 17. In a machine of the class described, a printing mechanism, a platen movable from printing position relative to said printing mechanism to a front-feed position and vice versa, means independent of said platen for receiving and holding work sheets, said means being movable from closed to open throat position andvice versa and being in open throat position when said platen is in front-feed position, means urg ing said work sheet holding means to closed throat position, a latching device for holding said work sheet holding means in open throat position, and means for moving said platen to printing position and for releasing said latching device with provisions for releasing said device to enable said work sheet holding means to grip the inserted work sheet prior to movement of said work sheet by said platen as the latter moves to printing position. 
 18. In a machine of the class described, a printing mechanism, a platen movable from printing position relative to said printing mechanism to a front-feed position and vice versa, means independent of said platen for receiving and holding work sheets, said work sheet hold ing means being movable from closed to open throat position and vice versa and being in open throat position when said platen is in front-feed position, means urging said work sheet holding means toward closed throat position, a latching device holding said work sheet holding means in open throat position, means for moving the platen toward printing position, and means ac tuated by said platen as it moves to printing position for releasing said latching device. 
 19.1n aomachine of the class described, a printing mechanism, a platen movable from printing position relative to said printing mechanism to a front-feed position and vice versa, a set of pressure rolls independent of said platen for receiving and holding work sheets, one oisaid feed rolls being movable away from the other to open and close the throat between them, means urging said movable pressure roll toward its companion roll, a latch for holding said movable roll in open throat position when moved to such position, and means controlled by said platen as it moves to printing position for releasing said latch. 
 20. In a front-feed machine of the class described. a printing mechanism, a platen, means cooperating with said platen to form a holding means for holding front-ted work sheets in printing position relative to said printing mechanism, said holding means being movable from closed to open throat position and vice versa, a second work sheet holding means independent of said platen for receiving said front-fed work sheets, said independent holding means being movable from closed to open throat position and vice versa, means for moving both of said holding means to open-throat position, means for receiving and guiding work sheets into both of said throats from the front while they are open, and means for closing both of szid throats. 
 21. In a front-feed machine of the class described, a printing mechanism, a platen, means cooperating with said platen to form a holding means for holding front-fed work sheets in printingposition relative to said printing mechanism, said hold ng means being movable from closed to open throat position and vice versa, a second work sheet holding means independent of said platen for holding said work sheets, said independent work sheet holding means being movable from closed to open throat position and vice versa, means for moving both of said holding means to open throat position, means for rel8? f iled, 
ceiving and guiding work sheets from the front into both of said throats while they are open, and means iorclosing both of said throats in= eluding provisions for closing one of said throats prior to the other to enable the inserted work sheet to be gripped by said closed throat to prevent it being disturbed by the closing of said second throat. 
22. In a front-feed machine of the class described, a printing mechanism, a platen movable from printing position relative to said printing mechanism to a front-feed position and vice versa, a front-feed means independent of said platen for receiving front-fed work sheets, said front-feed means being movable from closed to open throat position and vice versa, means for moving said platen from printing to front-feed position, means acting automatically as said platen is moved out of printing position to move said independent front-feed means to open throat position, means for guiding a work sheet under said platen from the front and into the open throat of said front-feed means while said platen is in front-"feed position, and means for mov ing said front-feed means to closed throat position and said platen to printing position. 
 23. In a front-feed machine 01" the class de scribed, a printing mechanism, a platen movable from printing position relative to said printing mechanism to front-feed position and vice versa, a set of -front-feed pressure rolls independent of said platen for receiving iront-ied work sheets, said front-feed pressure rolls being movable from closed to open throat position and vice versa, means for moving said platen from printing to front-feed position, means act-=- ing automatically as said platen is moved out of printing position to separate said front-feed rolls to open the throat between them, means for guiding a work sheet under said platen from the front and between said pressure rolls while said platen is in front-feed position, and means for moving said pressure rolls to closed throat position and said platen to printing position. 
 24. In a front-feed machine of the class de scribed, a printing mechanism, a platen movable from printing position relative to said printing mechanism to front--feed position and vice versa, front-feed means independent of said platen for receiving and holding front-fed work sheets, said front-feed means being movable from closed to open throat position and vice versa, and means controlled by a single lever for moving said platen from printing to front-feed position and simultaneously moving said independent front-feed means to open-throat position. 
 25. In a front-feed machine of the class described, a printing mechanism, a platen movable from printing position relative to said printing mechanism to front-feed position and vice versa, a set of front-feed pressure rolls independent of said. platen for receiving front-fed work sheets, one of said rolls being mounted to move with said platen as the latter moves out of printing position, means for moving said platen from printing to front-feed position, means causing said mov= able pressure roll to move with said platen as the latter moves out of printing position to thereby open the throat between said rolls to receive front-fed work sheets, means for guiding a work sheet under said platen from the front and into said open throat while the platen is out of printing position, and means for moving said movable pressure roll to closed throat position and said platen to printing position.