Cash register 
US-2055522-A
nan
1936-09-29
https://patents.google.com/patent/US2055522A/en
Sept. 29, 1936. DlcKE 2,055,522 
CASH REGISTER Original Filed Feb. 24, 1927 i0 Sheets-Sheet 1 Ennentor Allen A. Dicke His attorney FIG. 1 
 p 29, A. A. DICKE 2,055,522 
CASH REGISTER Original Filed Feb. 24, 1927 10 Sheets-Sheet 2 Summon Aflen A. Dicke Hi: Gtkomeg Sept. 29, 1936. DICKE 2,055,522 
CASH REGISTER Original Filed Feb. 24, 1927 10 Sheets-Sheet 5 Imnentor Allen A. Dicke Hi: Gttomeg A. A. DICKE CASH REGISTER Sept. 29, 1936. 
 lnventor Allen A. Dicke His (Ittomeg 1936- A. A. DICKE 2,055,522 
CASH REGISITER na]. Filed Feb. 24, 1927 10 Sheets-Sheet 5 Origi His attorney Sept. 29, 1936. A. A. DKCKE 7 2,055,522 
CASHREGISTER Original Filed Feb. 24, 1927 10 Sheets-Sheet 6 inventor 46 Allen A. Dicke WWW Hi: Gttorneg A. A DICKE CASH REGISTER Sept. 29, 1936. 
Original Filed Feb. 24, 1927 10 Sheets-Sheet 7 Bnnentor Allen A. Dicke His (Ittorneg A. A. DICKE CASH REGISTER Sept. 29, 1936. 
Original Filed Feb. 24, 1927 10 Sheets-Sheet 8 Snnentor Allen A. Dicke His (Ittorneg A. A. DICKE CASH REGISTER Sept. 29, 1936. 
Original Filed Feb. 24, 1927 10 Sheets-Sheet 9 EnmvE Inwentor Allen A. Dicke Hi (Ittomeg A. A. DICKE CASH REGISTER Sept. 29, 1936. 
Original Filed Feb. 24, 1927 10 Sheets-Sheet 10 ISnventor Allen A. Dicke Hi, (Ittorneg Patented Sept. 29, 1936 CASH REGISTER Allen A. Dicke, Montclair, N. J., assignor toThe National Cash Register Company, a corporation of Maryland Original application February 24, 1927, Serial No. 
170,494. Divided and this application November 24, 1933, Serial No. 699,511 
15 Claims. '(c1. 235-130) This invention relates to cash registers and the like, and is a division of application for United States Letters Patent of A. A. Dicke, Serial No. 170,494, filed February 24, 1927, now 
 Patent No. 2,048,060, issued July 21, 1936. 
 The invention is particularly related to the type of cash registers suitable for registering commercial transactions by entering the amounts of such transactions in suitable totalizer devices and for providing printed records of the items and totals of such transactions, it being broadly an object of the present invention to provide an improved mechanism for accomplishing the above function, the inherent characteristics of which are: simplicity in construction, reduction of number of parts, ease in manufacture of the component parts together with their assembly in the machine. 
One object of the present invention is to provide an improved type of differential mechanism which is simple in form but positive in its operation, resulting in the correct addition of amounts entered intoseveral totalizers in the machine. 
Briefly, the object just stated, which results from the improved design are accomplished in the prefen'ed form of embodiment herein shown but providing two complementally movable levers, there being a pair of levers for each bank of keys, their extents of movement being deter- 30 mined by the keys depressed in each bank. A universal operating member is also provided for operating the levers of certain banks, the arrangement being such that the levers of one bank may be stopped in a difierent position than the 35 levers in another bank so that the proper differential movement may be imparted to the related actuating rack. One of each pair of levers is normally locked, but when a key in the associated bank is depressed a detent is actuated to 40 move a zero stop pawl of that bank out of engagement with the lever to permit movement of the latter by the common operating member. 
 It is also an object of the present invention to provide an improved type of key detent mech- 45 anism which is simple in construction but eiiective in operation, one of the detents-that of the clerks bank of keys in the embodiment shownbeing capable of releasing the machine for adding operations. 
50 It is also an object of the present invention to provide a plurality of individual totalizers for keeping separately the amounts of the receipts pertaining to the different transactions occurringin mercantile establishments in which the 55 machine is intended to be used, and also to provide an improved type of mechanism for accumulating the grand total of the amounts entered in selected ones of the individual totalizers. 
 In connection with the totalizing devices it is broadly an object of the invention to provide 5 an improved type of totalizer selecting mechanism, the differential mechanism employed to eiiect selectionbeing similar in form and construction to that utilized in connection with the other banks of keys thus dispensing with the 10 need of a number of special parts. The totalizer selecting devices are so arranged that the totalizers are positively engaged and disengaged from the actuators, thus dispensing with the necessity of having springs to return certain parts 15 and insuring accuracy in the different operations of the machine. An improved locking mechanism is also provided whereby the totalizers may not be surreptitiously or accidentally operated. 
 The totalizer selecting devices are so arranged 20 that an item will normally be entered in the cash totalizer, the same amount being simultaneously entered in the grand totalizer. The amounts pertaining to other transactions are entered in the appropriate totalizer by depressing the related key and then operating the machine, the grand totalizer selecting devices being so arranged that when items are entered in certain totalizers the grand totalizer will not be operated. 
 It is also. an object of the present invention to provide an improved type of controlling mechanism whereby the machine may be normally conditioned for entering and printing items, but by the simple adjustment of a control lever the machine may be conditioned so that the totals standing upon any of the totalizers may be recorded. 
 In conjunction with the total-taking devices, it is a further object of the invention to provide an improved mechanism whereby the machine may be released for one operation by simply adjusting the total lever out of the normal adding position. This simplifies to a great extent the operations of the machine, permitting the totals to be obtained rapidly with a minimum oi. effort, which is a desideratum in machines of this type. Subsequent total-taking operations after the first are, in accordance with this invention, placed under the control of the transaction bank of keys. The construction is such, however, that this bank of keys has no control over the release of the machine when adding. 
 The machine is also provided with mechanism whereby the totals standing upon the individual totalizers may not only be recorded but whereby these totalizers may coincidentally be reset so that items pertaining to a subsequent period of business may be entered therein. 
' In connection withthe total-taking and resetting devices it is broadly an object of this invention to provide an improved type of mechanism which requires few parts but iseflective in its operation. 
 This in the embodiment shown comprises a plurality of cams which may be adjusted under control of the total lever so that the machine may be readily conditioned for entering the items, reading totals or resetting the totalizers, the cams being so arranged that the timing of the engagement and disengagement of the selected totalizers with the actuating rack may be changed as required. 
 The present invention also comprises novel interlocking devices between the different manipulative members to prevent misoperation either intentionally or accidental. The interlocks are very simple, thus precluding any possibility of their becoming out of order. A novel interlocking mechanism is provided between the error and operating keys, which while the error key is being operated prevents the depression of any of the operating keys, and conversely after the machine has been released for operation locks the error key against manipulation. 
 The machine is also equipped with a "single key mechanism for preventing the depression of more than one key in a bank, this mechanism being so coordinated with the total control lever that when the latter is moved out of the add position the key stop will be locked against operation thus preventing any of the amount keys from being depressed. Furthermore, movement of the total lever out of the adding position will release any of the previously depressed amount keys. 
 The "grand total key in the illustrated embodiment is located in the bank of transaction keys and in normal item entering operations is locked, but when the machine is conditioned for total operations movement of the total lever out of the adding position is adapted to unlock the grand total key since the latter may be employed in total-taking operations. 
 A simple interlock is also provided for preventing movement of the total lever out of the adding position when a clerk's key has been operated to release the machine for operation. 
 Improved devices are also provided for locking the machine against operation in the event-the total lever should be improperly adjusted and also whereby the total lever may not be moved out of its adjusted position when the machine has been partially operated. 
 With these and incidental objects in view the invention consists in certain novel features of construction and combinations of parts the essential elements of which are set forth inv appended claims, and a preferred form of embodiment of which is hereinafter, described with reference to the drawings which accompany and form part of the specification. 
Of said drawings: 
 Fig. 1 is a front elevation of a machine embodying the invention showing the controlling keys and the total controlling lever. 
 Fig. 2 is a transverse sectional view taken through the machine showing a bank of amount keys, the differential mechanism associated therewith, and the common member utilized to lock and subsequently release the amount keys. 
Fig. 3 is a view in side elevation of the zero operations. 
 of the fifth and sixth overflow banks. 
 Fig. 4 is a top plan view of the machine, the cabinet having been removed, showing the supporting frame, the total control lever and its connection to the releasing mechanism for the machine. This view also shows the arrangement 0! the printing segments and a number of the elements comprising the printing mechanism. 
 Fig. 5 is a transverse sectional view somewhat similar to Fig. 2 but taken alongside of the clerk's bank of keys and shows in detail these keys and their associated diflerential mechanism. 
 Fig. 6 is a top plan view taken substantially above the central portion of the machine showing the arrangement of the key banks and the connecting shafts between the diflerential devices and the totalizer actuators and the printingsegment's. 
 Fig. 7 is an elevation of the right hand side-oi the machine showing details of the clerks key bank, the multiple totalizers and the printing mechanism for printing items and totals. 
 Fig. 8 is a detail showing the operating crank and its connections to the various driving shafts. 
 Fig. 9 is a transverse sectional view of the machine taken to the left of the bank of transaction keys and shows in detail the diflerent key locking devices and their connections to the total control lever. 
 Fig. 10 is a transverse sectional view taken at the left side of the clerk's bank of keys and shows in detail the releasing mechanism for the machine which is controlled either by a clerk's key or the total control lever. 
 Fig. 11 is a. detail of the cam for operating the totalizer selecting mechanism during total taking operations. 
 Fig. 12 is a detail view of the cam which is a companion cam to that shown in Fig. 11 and shows particularly the arrangement of the cam slot eiiective during adding and reading total operations. 
 Fig. 13 is a transverse sectional view of the machine showing the totalizer selecting devices and their cooperation with the multiple totalizers. 
 Fig. 14 is a front elevation vices illustrated in Fig. 13. 
 Fig. 15 is a'partial transverse sectional view showing the arrangement ofthe multiple totalizers and the operating, segment, together with the printing segments and the printing platen. 
 Fig. 16 is a partial top plan view illustrating the devices whereby the control lever may release incorrectly depressed keys. 
 Fig. 17 is a detail of certain machine releasing elements which are efiective during totalizing of some of the de- Fig. 18 is a top plan view of the rams for efi'ecting different accounting operations. 
General description The machine herein disclosed includes various for printing upon inserted slips or issued checks and devices employed forthe printing of totals, 
and novel locking and interlocking devices to prevent misoperation of the machine. 
The driving mechanism comprises two drive shafts with gear connections whereby these shafts may be caused to make one rotation by two rotations of a crank handle in either item- 'entering operations or total-taking operations. The driving shaft and crank handle are normally locked but in item entering operations are released by the depression of one of a series of clerks" keys, while in total taking operations, since the clerks keys are ordinarily not employed, connections are effected between the total lever and the releasing device of the machine so that movement of the total lever to certain positions will release the machine in exactly the same manner as the clerks keys do in item on tering operations. 
 The keyboard comprises a total control lever, a plurality of banks of amount keys, one bank of clerks keys, and a bank of transaction keys included in which is a grand total key, which is locked against operation when the machine is conditioned for item entering operations. 
The differential mechanism for each bank comprises in general a pair of levers which are positively moved complementary extents, the movement of the levers being governed by the key depressed. A pair of such levers is provided for each bank of amount keys, clerks keys and transaction keys, the amount and clerk differential mechanisms being operated by a common member. By means of this differential mecha nism a variable movement is imparted to each totalizer actuating rack so that by its cooperation with the corresponding pinion of the selected totalizer it will actuate the totalizer element differentially during the return stroke of the actuator. Only the amount differential devices are utilized to actuatethe totalizer pinions while these difierential devices as well as those associated with the transaction and clerks key banks are utilized for the purpose of differentially adjusting the related type carriers. By suitable connections the type carriers are set differentially under control of the keys when items are entered or under control of the totalizers when totals are printed, such controls being active as determined by the movement of the control lever to a selected position. i 
 To accumulate the amounts entered in the machine, there is provided a plurality of individual transaction totalizers, the frames of which are so mounted that their pinions may be brought directly into cooperative relationship with the actuators, which in turn are controlled by the banks of amount manipulative devices, such as keys. For the purpose of selectively operating any of the transaction totalizers, which in the machine shown, are appropriated to each of the transaction keys and one for normally receiving cash entries, the differential devices associated with the transaction banks are provided. 
 While in the machine shown the totalizers are allotted to the different transactions, they may, if desired, be utilized to segregate the sales pertaining to different departments or clerks, etc. A grand totalizer is also provided and the elements of this totalizer may be moved into engagement with the actuating racks each time certain of the transaction totalizers are rocked into engagement with the actuators. Provision is also made whereby when an amount is entered in either of the totalizers appropriated to the paidout and received-on-account keys this amount will not be entered in the grand totalizer, so that the latter will only accumulate amounts representing the amount of the new sales performed during any arbitrary period. 
 A manipulative device forming a part of the total-recording mechanism is capable of being adjusted to three different positions. This manipulative device when in its normal position controls the machine so that the items may be entered upon the various totalizers. When this device is in a position designated read the totals standing upon any of the transaction totalizers or upon the "grand totalizer may be obtained and printed without resetting the totalizer. Taking the total standing upon the cash totalizer is effected by simply moving the total lever to the read position, and since this releases the machine for operation the crank handle may be turned, which results in printing the amount standing on the cash totalizer upon the record strip. 
 Printing totals from the grand totalizer and the remaining transaction totalizers is performed by depression of the related key followed by a subsequent operation of the crank handle. Depression of the grand total key or one of the transaction keys serves to release the machine during totaling operations only and for the first totaling operation no key need be depressed so that the total of the cash totalizer may be automatically taken. v 
 When the machine is conditioned for totaltaking by movement of the manipulative device to the read position the timing of the engagement of the totalizer pinions with the actuators will be so regulated that the desired totalizer will be moved into and out of mesh with the actuating segments for the purpose of permitting the segments to rotate the totalizer elements in both directions, thus permitting the amount to remain on the totalizer. 
 When the total lever is moved to the position designated reset themachine is conditioned so that the recording of the totals of any of the transaction totalizers and the grand totalizer may be permitted along with the resetting of the totalizer, and in this instance the totalizers are moved into mesh with the actuating segments for permitting the segments to rotate the totalizers in only one direction so that after the amount standing upon the selected totalizer has been subtracted therefrom the totalizer then will be disengaged from the rack and the totalizer pinions consequently will remain in their zero positions. 
In addition to the above described devices, the 
machine is also provided with an error key whereby in the event that an error should have been made in the depression of one of the keys in the amount or transaction bank, the same may be rectified without a further operation of the machine. The error or release key is so arranged in cooperation with the clerks bank of keys that it may not be operated after the machine has been released for operation by the depression of a cl-erks key. 
 Furthermore. in order to insure proper operations of the machine various other interlocks and cross connections are provided for the following purposes: to prevent movement o e to al lever out of its adjusted position after the operation of the machine has commenced; to effect the release of any of the previously depressed amount or transaction keys prior to a movement of the total control lever to the read or "reset position; for normally locking the grand total key when the machine is conditioned for item-ente ing operations; and for releasing it when the control lever is moved out of the adding position and simultaneously locking the "no sale key since the latter is not employed in total-taking operations. 
 The usual forms of key stops are provided for preventing the depression of more than one key in a bank and connecting mechanism is employed for locking the amount and clerks keys when the total lever is moved out of the adding position. 
 The general organization and operation of the machine as a whole having been thus outlined the preferred construction of the various parts referred to will now be described in detail. 
DETAILED DESCRIPTION Frame work In Figs. 4 and 6 is disclosed the relative arrangement of some of the members comprising the frame work of the machine from which it will be noted there are provided main side frames 40 and 4| between which are intermediate frames 42, which at their front portions comprise the supporting means for the amount keys and associated devices. In addition to these frames there is also provided a frame 43 to support the clerk's bank of keys while the frame 4| supports the transaction bank of keys. To give strength and rigidity to the frame work the various members are held together by transverse shafts which may at the same time either serve as the operating shafts for the machine or supportingmeans for some of the elements. To the right of the frame 4| are frames 44 and 45 for supporting the totalizers and printing devices. All of the frames just referred to rest upon and are attached to a base 46 (Fi As best shown in Fig. 1 the machine is enclosed by a cabinet 41 which may be made of any desired material, the cabinet being provided with a series of slots to receive the operating keys and the total controlling device. The printing and associated mechanisms are concealed by means of a hinged cover 49. 
 Operating mechanism To impart power to the various mechanisms of the machine, there is provided a manually operated crank handle 58 (Figs. 4 and 8) loosely mounted upon a stub-shaft attached to the frame 45. the handle having attached to it a gear 51 meshing with a larger gear 52 attached to a driving shaft 53. The gear 52, which is twice as large as the gear 51 meshes with an idler gear 54 loosely mounted upon a stud 55 projecting from the frame 45. The gear 54 meshes with a gear 56 rigidly secured to a second driving shaft 51. The shafts 53 and 51 are the driving shafts of the machine and carry cams and other devices for operating the various parts of the mechanism, as will be described in detail later in the specification. 
 The drawings show the machine as it would appear when provided with a manually operated crank for the purpose of operating it, but it is also intended that the machine may be provided with an electric motor and clutch to connect the motor with either of the driving shafts 53 or 51 and for this purpose any well known electric driving device may be used such as that shown in the United States patent to Kettering and Chryst No. 1,144,418, issued June 29, 1915. 
Keyboard The construction and mounting of each of the amount key banks 58 are identical. The bank 'illustrated in Fig. 2 being taken as representative of these four banks. The stems of the amount keys 58 fit in radial slots formed in their supporting frames 42, the stem of each key being surrounded by a spring 68 to return and retain the key to its outer or normal position. Each key has an inclined edge 69 and a notch 10 adapted to cooperate with lugs 11 integral with a key detent 12. The detent 12 of each bank is supported at its lower and upper ends respectively by arms 13 and 14, the arm 13 being pivoted to the key frame by a screw while the arm 14- is loosely pivoted upon a transversely extending rod 16. Each detent 12 serves to temporarily retain a key in its bank in depressed position since it will be obsufiiciently to bring the lug 1! into cooperation with the notch 16 and since the detent 12 then springs slightly upwardly under the action of a spring 11 the lug 11 will engage the notch 18 of the key and hold the latter depressed against the compression of the spring 58. 
 The arm 13 has an extension 18 engaging the pin 19 carried by a zero stop pawl 88 so that when the detent is lowered the engagement of the extension 18 with the pin 19 will disable the zero stop pawl 80 for the differential mechanism and since the key is held in locked position the zero stop pawl 80 will be retained in its disabled position as long as the key is held depressed. 
Clerks keys The bank of clerks keys 59 is shown in Fig. 5 and while it is constructed somewhat similar to the key banks already described it nevertheless contains an element not found in the amount key banks, through the medium of which it is capable of additional functions. The keys 59 are mounted in the frame 43 and by reference to Fig. 1 it will be seen that these keys reading from the top bear upon their projecting operating heads initials such as A, B, L, and M, representing the different clerks employed in the establishment for which the machine is designed. It is apparent that whenever desired a lesser number of keys may be placed in this bank, generally determinable by the number of clerks who are to use the which at its lower end is pivoted to an arm whose extension cooperating with a pin 86'disables a zero stop pawl 81 just as described in connection with the amount key banks. The upper end of the detent plate 84 is carried by an arm 88 having a pin 99 (Fig. 4) which extends laterally a sufllcient distance to overlie an arm 99 loosely mounted on the shaft I6. The clerks keys have the additional function of releasing the machine and the machine cannot be operated by the crank handle for entering items unless one of these keys is depressed. The clerks keys in addition to being releasing keys for the machine also control a type wheel by means of a differential mechanism to be hereinafter described, and it is sufficient here to state that n0 one can operate the machine without depressing a clerks key and by means of the printing mechanism the necessary information is given as to which clerk has been employed to release the machine. 
Machine locks The means whereby the crank handle is normally locked against operation but released upon depression of one of the clerks keys is best shown in Fig. 10. It will be noted that secured to the driving shaft 53 is a disk 9I having a shoulder normally engaging a lug 92 of an element slidably mounted in a bell crank 93, the lug being normally urged into cooperative relationship with the shoulder of the disk 9I by a spring 99 and a spring 95 connected to the bell crank 93. As previously stated, the arm 99 is loose on the shaft 16 and has a shoulder 96 adapted to coperate with a spring-pressed pawl 91 carried by the bell crank 93. A spring 98 urges the arm 99 against the stud 89. 
 From the construction just described, it will be selfevident that when a clerks key is depressed the pin 89 will rock the arm 99 counterclockwise (Fig. 10) so that the shoulder 96 cooperating with the pawl 91 will rock the bell crank 93 counterclockwise against the tension of the spring 95. This will result in the disengagement of the lug 92 from the shoulder of the disk 9| so that the spring 94 will urge the lug 92 upwardly enough to carry it out of line with the shoulder on the disk. When the shoulder 96 is disengaged from the pawl 91 the spring 95 will be effective to rock the bell crank reversely so that the lug 92 rests upon the periphery of the disk, thus leaving the shaft 53 and crank handle 59 unlocked for operation. 
Transaction key bank As previously stated, the transaction keys 63, 64, 65 and 66, and the grand total key 62 are all located in one bank (Fig. 7). Each of the key stems is provided with an inclined edge NH and a notch I92 adapted to engage a lug I93 integral with a detent plate I94, similar to the detent plates I2 and 84 described in connection with the amount and clerks key banks, respectively. By 
- this means the transaction keys are held temporarily depressed, and when any key is depressed, a zero stop pawl 89 (Fig. 9) is disabled in the usual manner. 
Single key mechanism It is desirable to provide means to prevent a depression of more than one key in a bank, since this would probably result in the disarrangement of the mechanism and a confusion in theprinted record. To this end there is loosely pivoted upon the clerk's key frame 43 (FigQlO) a series of key stops 99 of the usual form, adapted to cooperate with pins I99 carried by each of the stems of the clerks keys. The pendents 99 are so arranged that sufficient room is provided to permit the passage of only one of the pins I99 of one of the key stems so that when a key in one bank is depressed the upper edges of the pendents will by engagement with the pins I99 of the undepressed keys lock them against operation. 
A somewhat similar construction is provided for each bank of amount keys 58 and while this mechanism has only been shown and described in connection with the clerks bank it is to be understood that the construction shown and described should be taken as representative of all of the amount banks of keys as well. 
 Intermediate the five keys of the transaction banks are also located key stops I96 (Fig. 9) which serve in the usual way to prevent depression of more than one key in this bank. Attention is directed to the fact that the grand total key 62 is equipped with a pin I91, which normally in itementering operations is in looking relationship with a projection I98 of a plate I99 pivoted at its lower end to the transaction bank key frame by an arm H9 and pivoted to the transaction key bank frame at its uper end by an arm III secured to. the shaft "I6. 
Lock for operating key to banks in which keys have been depressed but in banks in which no keys have been depressed. 
 As best shown in Fig. 2, the detent plate '12 associated with the amount key bank has an extension IIZ having notches H3 and H4 adapted to cooperate with a bail II5. As best shown in Fig. 4 the bail Il5 comprises a transversely extending bar attached at opposite ends to a pair of bell cranks H6 and Ill loosely mounted at their mid-portion upon a transverse shaft H8. The rear arms of the bell cranks IIS and Ill are provided with rollers engaging the cam slots of box cams I19 (Figs. 2 and 9) attached to the driving shaft 53. To provide strength and rigidity to the frame, the bail H5 at its mid-portion has attached thereto an arm I29 (Fig. 4) which is also loosely mounted upon the shaft IIB. 
 As can be seen in Fig. 5 the detent 84 associated with the clerks key bank has an extension I22 having notches I23 adapted to cooperate with the bail H5 and similarly, referring to Fig. 9, the detent associated with the transaction bank has an extension I24 with notches I25 also adapted to cooperate with the bail II5. 
 When a key is depressed the detent of that particular bank is forced downwardly, thus bringing the rearmost notch into position to cooperate with the bail I I5, but if a key in any bank has not been depressed, the detent remains in its normal position wherein the bail II5 will be in cooperative relationship with the foremost notch. When the machine is partially operated the cam slot in the cam II9 rocks the arms II6 (Fig. 2) slightly downwardly thus raising the bail II5 so that it will engage either the foremost or rearmost notch thus holding all the detents in latched positions thereby preventing a depression of additional keys or the release of those keys which have been depressed in the different banks. This makes it clear that the amount keys may be depressed in conjunction with any desired transaction keys, and that upon depression of one of the clerks keys the machine is released so as to permit actuation of the operating mechanism, and that by a partial movement of the latter, all the keys in all the banks are locked against operation. 
6 J I Release of the keys at the end of an operation of the machine by the operating mechanism At or near the end of an operation of the machine it is necessary to release those keys which have been previously depressed and in the illustrated embodiment the release of the keys is enacted by the same member which looks them'during an operation of the machine. Loosely mounted upon the shaft it is an arm i2t (Fig. 2) which is adjacent the detent plate of the amount key bank and is connected to the upper end of the detent it by a pin i2? which is used as the connecting means between the arm i l and the detent. If desired the arm I 23 may be formed as an inte ral extension of the arm Id. By the connection Just described it will be noted that when the detent plate is moved downwardly by the depression of a key the arm 23 also moves downwardly. At a certain point in the operation of the machine the cam He gives a downward movement to the ball 4 It so that it strikes the arm I26 and rocks the detent i2 downwardly sufficient to disengage the lug M from the notch iii of the depressed key and permit the spring at to return the key to its normal position. 
 As shown in Fig. 4 a series of arms I26 are provided, one for each bank of amount keys. In 
- respect to the clerks key bank the arm 83 which it will be remembered is a part of the train of mechanism for releasing the machine for operation, also lies under the bail H5 and serves to release the depressed clerks' key at the end of an operation of the machine in the same manner described for the amount keys. In respect to the transaction key bank an arm I263, Figs. 4 and 17, likewise lies under the bail H5 and performs the same function. 
 As previously stated, the arm 96 (Fig. 10) is moved by the pin 89 a sufiicient extent to cause the shoulder 96 to escape the shoulder on the pawl 37] so that the spring 95 may rock the bell crank 93 and cause the projection 92 to rest on the periphery of the disk 9i. As the arm 93 is permitted to rise upon the release of the clerks keys it will rock the pawl 91 idly about its pivot until the shoulder 93 is again above the shoulder on the pawl. The construction just explained serves to prevent an operator from holding the locking bell crank 93 in released position by accidentally or intentionally holding the clerks key depressed at the moment when it should be released and returned to normal. 
Error key An improved type of key releasing device is employed whereby if the operator should depress a key in error the same may be returned to its normal position without requiring an operation of the machine. 
 Each arm I3 which is connected to the amount key detent I2 has an extension I28 (Fig. 2). When an amount key is depressed and latched the extension I28 will be located in front of a. rod I29 which as shown in Fig. 6 extends transversely in the machine and-is supported by arms I30 rigidly attached to a horizontal transverse shaft I3I to which is attached a key lever I32 which as shown in Fig. 1 projects through the machine cabinet so as to be readily operable. When the error key I32 is depressed the shaft I3I will be rocked counterclockwise (Fig. 2) so that by the'cooperation of the rod I29 with the extensions I28 of the detent plate supporting arms, which have been operated by virtue of depression of certain keys in various banks, the detents will be rocked still further downwardly and disengage the lugs II from the notches I of the depressed keys thus permitting the key return springs 68 to return those depressed keys to their normal positions. 
 Substantially the same form of releasing connection between the error key I32 and the detent associated with the transaction bank of keys (Fig. 7) is provided so that if a: key in this bank should have been depressed in error the mistake can be rectified prior to a further operation of the machine by the crank handle, it being understood that the rod U29 is of sufiicient length to engage the extensions I23 related to the amount and the transaction key banks. 
 It is advantageous to lock the keys of the banks in which no keys are to be returned while the error key is operated. To this end the extensions E23 related to the amount and transaction banks as well as the corresponding extensions I33 for the clerks bank have their lower edges l28I concentric with respect to the shaft I3I. While the error key is being operated the rod I29 will coact with these concentric edges to lock the extensions and detents of the unoperated banks against movement by the depression of a key until the error key is returned to normal. 
 It will be noted, however, from an inspection of Fig. that the extension I33 which is integral with the arm 85 connected to the clerks detent 84 is difierent from the corresponding extensions I23 of the amount and transaction key banks. The extension M3 is in. the case of the clerks key bank provided with an edge I33 concentric with respect to the pivotal point it of the arm 85 so that when a clerks key has been operated to release the machine for operation the concentric edge 833 will pass in front of the rod I29 thereby locking the shaft I3I against counterclockwise movement by depression of the error key I32. Thus it will be noted that any fraudulent operation of the machine, such as the release of the keys after the machine has been released for operation will be completely prevented. 
 The result of the construction just described is that should a mistake be made in the depression of the keys in the machine, the same may be corrected before the machine is released for operation by manipulating the error key I32, but after the operating handle has become unlocked the error key becomes locked so that the keys may not be released except by completing the operation of the machine, permitting the regular release of the keys through the bail H5 and arms 88, I263 and I26. 
Difierential mechanism The diflerential mechanism of the machine is a transverse shaft I36.. It will be noted from Fig. 6 that the shaft 51 carries two cams I34, each of which cooperates with its associated bell crank I35 and between the ends of the bell crank is extended a universal bar or rod I31. When the shaft 51 is rotated in the direction ofthe arrows shown in Fig. 2 the bell crank will remain sub.- stantially stationary for a partial movement of the shaft 51 after which the cams rock the bell crank I35and rod I31 forwardly. to gradually increasing extents. After the maximum movement has been given to the rod I31 the latter will remain substantially stationary during another portion of the continued movement of the shaft 51. The movement given to the rod I31 during the remainder of the movement of the shaft 51 is substantially a counterpart of the first portion of the movement. This will result first in holding the rod shifted and then giving it a return slightly beyond its normal position and finally after it has remained substantially idle for a while it will be brought to normal position. The return movement of the rod serves to actuate the differential mechanism of the machine, which will now be described in detail. 
The universal rod I31 is adapted to cooperate with a cam slot I38 in a floating lever I39 the forward end of which is adapted to cooperate at the desired time with the stem of the depressed key, but it is normally retained by a spring MI in the position shown in Fig. 2, abutting against a projection I40 of the frame 42. The lever which is in the form of a cam member is pivoted by a pin I42 to an arm I43 secured by pins I44 to a cornplementary movable lever I45 which has integral therewith a segment plate .I46 loosely mounted upon a fixed pivot I41 which in the illustrated embodiment comprises a transverse supporting shaft mounted in the various side and intermediate frames in the central part of the machine. The forward end of the lever I45 is normally in engagement with the lower edge of anose I48 projecting from the zero stop pawl 80 while the for ward end of the lever I39 is normally in such a position that when the uppermost key, which is the key of highest value in the bank is depressed it is substantially in contact with the rear side of the inner end of this key. 
 The operation of the differential mechanism is as follows: When a key is depressed the zero stop pawl 80 is rocked forward so that its nose M8 is carried away from the shoulder of the lever I45 and as previously described, the zero stop pawl will be retained in its disabled position. When the crank handle 50 is operated the shaft 51 is rotated and such movement rocks the bar I31 about the shaft I36 and this movement of the rod I31 is adapted to move the levers I39 and I45 complementally, the extent of movement imparted to each member being dependent upon the key depressed. The spring I4I will be given sufficient tension to hold the lever I39 at normal until the companion lever I45 has been moved. When the shoulder of the lever I45 engages the inner end of a depressed key further movement of that lever is prevented and movement of the lever I39 continues until its shoulder reaches the inner end of the depressed key. 
 For example, if the 8 key has been depressed the inner end of the stem of that key will be moved in the path of the complementally movable levers I39 and I45 and as the machine is operated the rod I31 may first cause the lever I45 to pivot around the shaft I41 and move its other end upwardly until its shoulder engages the stem of the depressed key. During this movement the lever I39 tends to pivot about its upper end in contact with the projection I40 so that the pin I42 serves to transmit the motion of the rod I31 to the arm I43. If the rod I31 continues its movement around the pivotal point I36 it cannot impart a further upwardmovement to the lever I45 due to the contactof the latter with the end of the depressed key so that the rod will now by its cooperation with the lower-edge of the cam slot I38 cause the lever I39'to be rocked counterclockwise about its connection I42 with the arm I 43 until the shoulder of the lever I39 engages the rear or upper side of the 8 key stem. The movement which is given to the segment plate I46 and lever I45 will therefore be of eight units in length while a complementary movement of one unit will be given to the lever I39. When a 4 key is depressed the segment plate I46 will be given four steps of movement and the lever I39 five steps of movement. 
 If the machine is operated with no key in the bank depressed the zero stop pawl for that bank remains in its operative relationship with the lever I45 so that the latter will not move while the lever I39 will be given nine steps of movement. This merely results in rocking the lever I39 downwardly about its pivotal point I42 during the first half of the operation of the cam I34 and returning it the second half of the operation with a result that no movement will be given to the segment I46. At the end of the first half of the operation the parts will be in the positions shown in dotted lines in Fig. 2. 
 Summarizing therefore, it will be noted that the segment plate I45 will be given a differential movement during the first part of the operation of the machine and will be returned the same differential distance during the last half of the cycle of operation these movements being utilized to adjust the printing segments and operate the totalizing mechanism. 
 Attention is called to the fact that the formation of the cam slot I38 in the floating lever I39 is such that when the levers I39 and I45 are brought together on opposite sides of the depressed key or of the nose I48 of the zero stop pawl 80 the curvature of the slot I38 will be concentric with the fixed pivot of the segment plate I46. Furthermore, at this time a concave forward edge I39I (Fig. 2) of the lever I39 will always be brought into contact with the hub portion of the segment I46. 
 There is provided a differential mechanism of a type identical to that just described for each bank of amount keys (Fig. 6) the same reference characters being applied to like parts. To the left of the hundreds of dollars bank of amount keys are two differential mechanisms for which no depressible keys are provided. The differential mechanism of these two orders are utilized for the purpose of total-taking and resetting, thus permitting printing of amounts higher than that represented by the value of the keys on the keyboard. 
 A differential mechanism of substantially the same construction is also provided for the clerks bank of keys as best shown in Fig. 5, which is for the purpose of adjusting the clerks type carrier. 
 The elements comprising the differential mechanism associated with the transaction banks of keys are best shown in Fig. 13 and their differences over the corresponding elements of the amount differential will be pointed out later. The transaction differential is not only utilized for the purpose of adjusting a type carrier but also for selecting a totalizer for operation. 
Printing mechanism The printing mechanism will be but briefly described. 
 To adjust the type cafi-iers differentially each plate I46 (Fig. 2) associated with the amount key difierential mechanism meshes with a segment I68 attached to one of a series of parallel shafts lBQ each shaft having rigidly secured to it toward one end a segment ill! (Fig. 6) which as shown in Fig. 15 meshes with a segment W2 loosely mounted upon the shaft I67. This segment I12 has a segmental arm I13 carrying type M4 for printing the characters 0" to "9" inclusive. The same sort of connection is provided between each segment plate I46 of an amount difierential mechanism to a corresponding amount printing type arm H8 so that during the first half of the operation of the machine, at which time the plate Hit is moved differentially each of the arms its will be moved rearwardly a distance commensurate with the amount key depressed in its related bank, and when a platen is operated an impression will be made on the record material denoting the amount entered in the machine. i 
The segment plate M6 (Fig. 5) associated with the clerks differential mechanism meshes with a segment i715 attached to a shaft 875 which is provided at its opposite ends with a segment ii'i (Fig. 6) meshing with teeth (not shown) on the lower part of a type arm H8 (Fig. 4). 
 The segment plate Hi6 associated with the transaction differential meshes with a segment E79 (Fig. 13) secured to a shaft ltd which extends transversely in the machine and which has secured thereto a segment i8l (Fig. 6) meshing with a segment arm B82 (Fig. 4) carrying type representing diiierent transactions. As best shown in Fig. 4 the type arms H3, H8 and it? are adjacent each other and normally positioned beneath a platen. 
 The platen, as best shown in Figs. 4, '7 and 15 comprises two arms i83 connected by a crosshead I84 carrying a rubber impression block I85 which extends above all of the printing segments. 
 The record material is fed from the supply roll l86 (Fig. 7) and is drawn forwardly underneath the impression block I85 and over the same and then rearwardly under a curved glass it, over a roller E89, and onto a storage roll it. 
 An inking ribbon i9l is provided to make the printing on the record strip legible. 
 A pitman I95 connected to the arms I83 and operated by a box cam 19! at the proper time during the operation of the machine lowers the block I85 to carry the record strip in contact with the type to print on the strip. 
Multiple totalizers The present machine is provided with five tocash, paid-out and a grand totalizer. 
 Since the construction of the several totalizers' is identical a description of one will sufliceand as they have been fully illustrated and described in detail in the parent application only so much of them will be herein described as is necessary for an understanding of this divisional application. a 
Each totalizer is supported in a frame 2l0 (Figs. 7 and 13) journaled between the frames and 45 on pins 2| I. Each totalizer frame 2l0 has a supporting shaft 2l2 carrying a plurality of totalizer pinions 2|3 (one of which is shown in (Fig. 15). There are a suificient number of diiferential devices for the accumulating section of the. machine for six denominational orders and there are also a corresponding number of totalizer pinions 2B. To actuate the totalizer pinions each of the previously described segments I12 carries a rack or actuator 2. The journal pins 2 are the pivotal points of the totalizer frames which are adapted to be rocked about these points to bring the pinions 2| 3 into mesh with the racks 2M. The racks 2 are of sumcient length to be common to and cooperate with the pinions of each of the five totalizers as is particularly shown in Fig. 15. 
 As shown in Fig. 13 there is attached to each shaft 2l2 an arm 2l5,which slides in a radial slot formed in the totalizer supporting frame 65. Each arm M6 has a slot 2B6 substantially concentric with the center of the shaft Ml. The difierential mechanism for the transaction key bank as already explained comprises the levers la -T and t lt-T similar to those described in connection with the amount key difierential it being noted, however, that the universal bar I31 (Fig. 6) is not of suflicient length to cooperate with the slot l38 of the lever l39-T related to the transaction dififerential mechanism and that a stud 22s is provided for this purpose. The stud 225) is carried by an arm 22l (Figs. 6 and 9) integral with which is an arm 222 carrying rollers 223 and 22 (see also Fig. 11). 
 In the normal item-entering operation the roller 223 engages a slot in a box cam 225 secured to the shaft 5i (Figs. 6 and 12). By referring to Fig. 12 it can be seen that the configuration of the slot in the box cam 225 which is eilective during item entering operations (the various portions being designated by the reference character 226) is different from the cam slot in the box cam ass (Fig. 5) for operating the amount and clerks differential mechanism and it is noted therein that the pin 223 during the first movement of the driving shaft 5'1 will dwell a longer time than the rod i3l. In normal add operations the lovers 139 and N5 of the amount and clerks difierential mechanisms will move toward each other prior to any movement of the corresponding members iSQ-T and l45-T of the transaction difierential mechanism and substantially at or just prior to the time that the levers I39 and N5 of the amount difierentials close upon the opposite sides of a depressed key, a portion of the cam slot 226 will be efiective to begin to rock the arm 222 so that as it continues it will rock the stud 220 (Fig. 13) downwardly thereby forcing the associated levers l39-T and i45T to close upon each other. It will be understood that the levers I39 and I45 of the amount differential devices will at this time have been properly positioned and remain in such position, it also being clear that the operating segments 2| 4 are stationary at this time. This timing relation is necessary since itis desirable to first difierentially .adiust the actuating racks 2M andthen while they are stationary to diii'erentially move the levers l39T and HIS-T of the transaction differential mechanism so that the desired totalizer will be engaged with the differentially positioned racks 2l4,the latter then being restored to their normal positions to effect adding in the-selected totalizer while the pinions remain engaged therewith. 
To select the cash totalizer for operation it is only necessary todepress the desired amount the shaft I36 and since no key has been depressed in the transaction bank the zero stop pawl remains in its normal or effective position and prevents any movement of the lever I45-T so that the lever I38-T will be rocked downwardly until the pin 221 enters the cam slot 230 in the cam 228. In the normal positions of the parts the lug 229 is already in engagement with the slot 2"; of the arm 2I5 related to the cash totalizer- 23l. As the pin 221 enters the slot 230 it positively rocks the cam 228 counter clockwise (Fig. 13) about its pivot 211 and by the cooperation of the lug 229 with the slot 2l6 it will rock the cash totalizer about its journal pin 2| I to engage the pinions 2 I3 with the racks 2I4 which at this time have been positioned differentially and are now being held stationary. 
 As the machine is further operated the racks 2 l4 will be restored to their normal positions with the result that the differential movement previously given thereto will be transmitted to the pinions 2 I3 of the selected and engaged totalizer. During this time the cam slot 226 (Fig. 12) is effective to retain the pinions in mesh with the racks 2 I 4. 
 After the racks 2 I4 have assumed their normal positions the arm 222 (Fig. 13) is rocked reversely resulting in moving the stud 220 clockwise the initial movement of which by the disengagement of the pin 221 from the cam slot 230 results in the disengagement of the pinions 2I3 from the racks 2I4, continued operations of the machine serving to restore the transaction levers I 39-? and I45--T to their normal positions. 
 As previously stated a grand totalizer 232 (Fig. 13) is to have all cash sales added thereto. The shaft N2 of the grand totalizer 232 has an arm 2I5G which is not slotted at its lower end but has a pin 233'engaging a slot 234 of a plate 235 the latter being slotted at 238 to engage the shaft I41. The plate 235 is urged to its normal or upper position by a spring 231 bearing against the shaft I41 and fitted into a socket formed in an extension 238 of the plate 235. This plate 238 has a plurality of projections240, 24I and 242 normally engaging a pin 243 attached to the cam 228. 
 From this description it can be seen that when the pin 221 passes in the slot 230 of the cam 228 the latter will be rocked counter clockwise to bring the cash totalizer into mesh with the racks 2I4 and by the cooperation of the pin 243 with the extension'242 will rock the plate235 downwardly it being guided by the slot 238 engaging the shaft I41 and this downward movement of the plate 235 through the cooperation of the slot 234 and pin 233 force the arm 2I5G inwardly, thus bringing the grand totalizer pinions 2l3 into mesh with the racks 2I4 so that the grand totalizer will have simultaneously accumulated thereon the same amount as is entered in the cash totalizer 23I To prevent the totalizers from accidentally falling into mesh withthe racks 2I4 by virtue of their weight or to prevent them from being with the racks, there is provided a novel locking device which will now be described. 
 As shown in Figs. 13 and 14 the pin 211 which is carried by the lever I45-T and which is the pivotal point of the cam 228 extends laterally and projects into a supplemental plate 244 loosely mounted upon the shaft I41, the periphery of the plate 244 being concentric with the center of the shaft I41. By means of the connecting pin 2 I 1 the plate 244 partakes of the same movement as the lever I45T and the cam 228. Therefore it can be seen from Fig. 13 that the downward extensions of the arms 2I5 related to the received-on-account totalizer 245, the charge totalizer 246, the paid-out totalizer 241, normally rest upon the periphery of the plate 244-thus preventing those totalizers from being rocked about their pivotal points. The pinions of the grand totalizer 232 are normally spring-held against being rocked into cooperative relation ship with the racks 2I4 by the cooperation of the pin 233 with the slot 234 of the spring-urged plate 235. The cash totalizer 23I is normally spring-held in its outer position under the action of the springs 2 I 8 and 231 by the cooperation of the pin 243 with the projection 242 of the plate 235. 
 It will be noted, however, that the segment plate 244 has a notch 248 normally positioned over the rear end of the arm 2|5 associated with the cash totalizer 23I so that there will be no interference when this totalizer is drawn into mesh with the racks 2I4 upon operation of the machine. To look and unlock the grand totalizer at the desired time there is attached to the plate 244 a supplemental plate 250 having notches 25l, 252 and 253, the rearmost notch 25I being normally positioned under the lower end of the arm 2I5G related to the grand totalizer, thereby permitting this totalizer to be normally drawn into mesh during a cash operation. 
 When it is desired to enter an amount in the machine which represents a paid-out transaction the desired amount keys are depressed and in addition the paid-out key 66 is depressed, the machine then being released by a clerks key and finally operated by operation of the crank handle 50. When the paid-out key 66 is depressed the zero stop pawl 80 is disabled as previously described. 
 When the handle is operated the shaft 51 rocks the stud 220 forwardly (Fig. 13) which results in first rocking the lever I45-T upwardly, due to the retarding action of the spring I4I connected to the lever I39-T until the extreme forward end of the lever I45-T cooperates with the stem of the paid-out key at which time the pin 243 of the cam 228 is brought out of cooperative relationship with the projection 242 so that when the lever I45T strikes the stem of the paid-out key the pin 243 will be positioned over a portion of the plate 235 between the projections 240 and 2M. When the cam 228 is moved upwardly by the lever I45-T the lug 229 will be disengaged from the stud 2H5 of the arm 2 I5 related to the cash totalizer 23I and will then engage the slot 2I6 in the arm 2I5 associated with the paid-out totalizer 241. Since the segment plate 244 moves simultaneously with the lever I45-T the notch 248 will be positioned in the rear of the end of the arm 2l5 of the paid-out totalizer so that when the lever 239-T moves downwardly the pin 221 will enter the slot 230 with the result that the arm 2 I5 will be drawn improperly forced into operative relationship downwardly, rocking the pinlons of the paidout totalizer 241 into mesh with the racks 2 which are then stationary. .Since the lower end of the arm 2l5 of the paid-out totalizer registers with the notch 248 there will be no interference between the arm 2l5 and the plate 244 when the totalizer is drawn into'mesh with the rack 2| 4. The pin 248 will, however, be positioned over the cutaway portion of the plate 235 so that while the cam 228 is rocked counter clockwise it will not actuate the plate 235 and the grand totaliz'er will not be engaged with-the rack. It will also be observed that while the notch 248 registers with the lower end of the arm 2|5 of the paidout totalizer the periphery of the plate 244 on either side of the notch 248 will coact with the lower end of the arms of the totalizers 234, 245 and 246 so that their pinions may not be intentionally or accidentally forced into engagement with the racks 2M. 
 Counter clockwise movement of the plate 244 also adjusts the plate 250 so that its periphery, instead of a notch, cooperates with the lower edge of the arm 2l5G carried by the totalizer wheel shaft 2! 2 of the grand totalizer 232 thereby looking it in its normal position. The paid-out totalizer is meshed with the racks 2M3 and the racks are then restored to their normal positions so that the paid-out amounts will be entered in this totalizer, after which the levers its-T and i-T will be moved away from each other so that the pin 22? engaging the forward edge of the slot 230 positively" withdraws the paid-out totalizer pinions from the racks 2 it. 
 When it isdesired to enter an amount in the charge totalizer the charge key 65 is depressed which results in the engagement of the lug 22$ with the slot 286 of the arm 2l5 associated with the charge totalizer 266 so that this latter totalizer will be engaged with the racks 2M and operated differentially in a manner like that just described. It should also be observed that when the charge totalizer is selected for operation the pin 243 of the cam 228 will be positioned over the lug 240 of the plate 238 so that the grand totalizer 232 will simultaneously receive the same amount entered as that entered in the charge totalizer 2 36. 
 Received-on-account transactions are entered in substantially the same manner with the exception that the received-on-account key 63 will be depressed, which results in the engagement of the received-on-account totalizer 265 with the racks 2i 4. When the received-on-account totalizer 2 15 is engaged with the racks 2 M the amount entered therein will not be entered in the grand totalizer 232 since the pin 253 is positioned over a portion of the normal periphery of the plate 235. It will be noted therefore that only in charge and cash transactions the grand totalizer will accumulate all the items entered in the related totalizers, thus giving a grand total of all the new sale transactions. 
 From the above it is clear that the entering of amounts on the grand totalizer simultaneously with any selected transaction totalizer is dependent upon whether or not a corresponding projection is formed on the controlling plate 235. The, absence of such a projection will result in the grand totalizer not being actuated while the presence of a projection will cause it to simultaneously accumulate the same items as the selected transaction totalizer is accumulating. By the present construction a very flexible arrangement is provided to meet the various needs and conditions of different types of businesses in which machines of this class may be employed. 
Located in the transaction key bank is a key 64 designated as the no-sale key for controlling" certain iunctions independent of an'entry of a sale. No totalizer is provided for this no-salekey and depression of the same followed by a subsequent operation of the machine merely results in the printing of a no-sale designation. When the no-sale key is depressed it serves to stop the levers I 39-T and I 45-T in a position determined by the stem of the depressed key, the 
arrangement and location of the key being such that when the complementary movable members ere on opposite sides of the same the pin 221 will be engaged with the cam slot 230 of the cam 228 but the lug 229 will not engage any of the slots of the arm 2H5 of any totalizer and in addition the pin 243 will register with the cut-away portion of the plate 235 intermediate a pair of projections. Therefore no totalizer will be engaged when a no-sale key is depressed. 
Transfer mechanism Total-taking mechanism As previously stated, the illustrated machine is provided with a total lever 65 (Fig. 1) which is normally in the add position, in which position the machine is conditioned for accumulating the items entered in one or more of the various totalizers. The total lever 6i may be moved into two other positions designated as "read and reset, which in the first instance conditions the machine so that the amount standing upon any of the totalizers may be obtained by printing the total upon the record strip. Movement of the total lever into the reset position permits the printing of the amounts standing upon the various totalthe case with the regular item-entering operations. 
 The shank of the total lever 6|, as best shown in Fig. 9 is in the form of a square rod 2% connected to a bifurcated member 28!, the latter being pivoted to the fixed frame of the machine by a stud 282, it being noted that the upper end of the lever projects through the machine cabinet and is movable in a slot in the cabinet so that it may be placed adjacent the various legends ,fiadd, read and reset. The upper end er the rod 280 just beneath the machine cabinet dias a segmental portion 283 (Fig. 4) below part of which is an integral cam 284. Since in total-taking operations the clerks keys are ordinarily not depressed, additional mechanism is provided whereby the total lever 6| will release the machine for one operation when it is moved out of the add position while for subsequent totaling operations the various transaction keys will release the machine, and mechanism