Calculating machine 
US-2108596-A
nan
1938-02-15
https://patents.google.com/patent/US2108596A/en
Feb. 15, 1938. Ki V, RUDIN CALGULATING MACHINE Filed Feb. 27, 1950 l2 SheetS-Sheet 2 Feb. l5, 1938. K. v, RUDIN CALCULATING MACHINE Filed Feb. 27, 1930 l2 Sheets-Sheet 3 V mwen/T022 @ff WW @m Feb. l5, 1938. K. v. RUDIN CALCULATING MACHINE Filed Feb. 27, 1933 12 Sheets-Sheet 4 III/IIA" 'Fell 15, 1938. K v RUDlN CALCULT ING' MACHINE Filed Feb. 27, 1930 12 Sheets-Sheet 5 Feb. 15, 1938. K V, RUDIN 2,108,596 
CALCULATING MACHINE Filed Feb. 27, '1950 l2 Sheets-Sheet 5l Fly/myn Fb. 1s, 193s. 
K. v. RUDIN 2,108,596 
CALGULATING MACHINE 12 Sheets-Sheet '7 Filed Feb. 27, 1930 Feb. 15, 1938. K v RUDIN 2,108,596 
' CALCULATING MACHINE Filed Feb. 27, 1950 l2 Sheets-Sheet 8 Feb. 15, 193s. K, v RUDIN 2,108,596 
CALCULATING MACHINE Filed Feb. 27, 1950 12 Sheets-Sheet 9 y im 5a VW V70 wa Feb. 15, 1938. K. v. RUDIN CALCULATING MACHINE Filed Feb. 27, 1930 l2 Sheets-Sheet 10 l pad; 
Feb. 15, 1938. K. v. RUDIN CALCULATING MACHINE Filed Feb. 27, 1930 l2 Sheets-Sheet ll Feb. 15, 1938. K, v RUDlN 2,108,596 
CALCULATING MACHINE Filed Feb. 27, 1930 l2 SheeCS-Slheet l2 nanlmlaaalamlaA WIW-4% Patented Feb. 15, 1938 l CALCULATING MACHINE Karl Viktor Rudin, Stockholm, Sweden Application February 27, 1930, Serial No. 431,872 In Sweden July 17, 1929 called Odhner machines, that is, calculating machines in which-the setting mechanism consists of setting disks carrying adjustable teeth which are shifted'by means of rotatable cam disks. In such machines, however, the setting motions are transferred circumferentially of the cam disks which have a comparatively large diameter and wherein the angles described in the setting motions for diierent numerical values cannot be reduced to any considerable extent. Thus, the distances of movement of the setting mechanism parts in such machines are comparatively great as regards the numerical values corresponding to the larger turning angles and the work connected with the settingoperation varies within wide limits for the different numerical values whereby, ink particular, the use of keys for the setting -is very diilcult. The invention has for its object to facilitate the setting in general and to render possible an easy setting by means of keys. For said purpose the cam disks are, according to the invention, rotatable in both directions from the normal position, the turning in the one direction bringing about the setting of certainby way of Aexample the four lowermost, numerical values,v whereas the setting of `the other unit values takes place by means of rotation in the opposite direction. By this arrangement the largest rotations oi the cam disks are reduced to about one half of the ordinary turn- .ing .angle and the setting work is more even with respect to the different numerals from one to nine. 
 The invention will be more fully described with reference to the accompanying drawings. Figs. 1 to 33 relate to one and the same embodiment oi the invention. Fig. 1 is a plan view of the machine, the casing being in section. Fig. 2 is aseotion on the line 2-'2 in Fig. 1. Fig. 2a shows more in detail a portion of the device shown in Fig. 2. Fig. 3 is a plan view of the machine, 
 the casing being in position. Fig. 4 is a plan view of the key system and a part of the zeroizing device. Fig. 5 is a detail of Fig. 7. Fig. 6 is a di. 
agrammatic view of the crank gearing. Fig. 7 is anaxial section through the setting mechanism with the'appertaining carriage, the middle portion being broken away. Fig. 8 shows a setting disk with the yappertaining cam disk viewed from the right, part of the setting disk being broken'away. Figs. 9 and 10 show a cam disk, together with the displaceable teeth, set in two different setting positions and viewed from the left. Fig. 11 is a view corresponding to Fig. 8 of the cam disk during the setting motion. Figs. 12 and 13 show'a detail of the setting disk in side elevation from the left hand side and in iront view respectively. Fig. 14 shows a part of the locking device for the cam disks viewed from the right. Figs. 15 and 16 show a detail of Fig. 14 viewed from the right and from the front respectively. Fig. 17 is a detail of the setting device viewed from the right hand side. Fig. 18 is a plan view of the setting device in Fig. 17. Fig. 19 is a side elevation, viewed from the right hand side, o! the zero key and a part of the locking device for the cam disk being in setting position. Figs. 20 and 21 show the shape of the rear ends of the keys. Fig. 22 shows a part of the zeroizing device of the setting mechanism viewed from the right. Fig. 23 is a plan view of the zeroizing device in Fig. 22. Figs. 24 and 25 show a detail. of Fig. 31 viewed from the right hand side and the front, respectively. Figs. 26 and 27 show the carriage motion mechanism Viewed from the right hand side andvfrom above, respectively. Fig. 28 is a section on the line 28-28 in Figs. 1 and 29. Fig. 29 is a plan view of the parts appearing in Fig-28. Figs. 30 and 31 show the device for the stepwise motion of the carriage during multiplication and division, respectively, as viewed from above and from the right hand side, -respectively. Fig. 32 is a section oi a detail in Fig. 31. Fig. 33 shows parts of Fig. 30 in front view. Figs. 34 and 35 show a modied embodiment of the setting device in side elevation and top View, respectively. Figs. 36 and 37 show a detail of Figs. 34 and 35 in side elevation and top. view, respectively. Fig. 38 shows a modification of the setting mechanism shown in Figs. 17 and 18 especially intended to be used in setting toothed Wheels having iixed teeth. Figs. 39 and 40 illustrate the application of the invention in Odhner machines not provided with a key-board. 
 In contradistinction to ordinary Odhner machines the product calculating mechanism I (Fig. 1) as weil as the revolutions counting mechanism 2 (Fig. 2) are stationary in the machine. Both of said calculating mechanisms are carried by a common shaft 3. On the other hand, the setting mechanism 4 is axially displaceable in iront of the two calculating mechanisms. The setting mechanism is journalled in a carriage displaceable along the supporting shaft 5 and consisting of a tubular sleeve 6 (Figs. 1, 2, 7) enclosing the shaft and carrying end pieces 'i at its ends. The shaft 5 consists of a fiat bar which at its ends is formed with cylindrical studs 8 by means of which said \bar is journailed in the frame. In cavities on the top and bottom sides of the sleeve 6 four small wheels 9 are journalled which run on the bar 5 and by means of flanges |0 grip around the edges of the bar. On account of the engagement of said wheels with the shaft 5 the carriage 6 will, upon the shaft rotating, participate in the rotation. The rotation of the shaft 5 is brought about by means of the crank II through the medium of toothed wheels I2, I3. 
 The setting disks I4 carrying the adjustable teeth are nine in number and yare mounted on the sleeve 6. Each of the disks is provided with a tooth I5 projecting inwardlyinto a corresponding slot in the sleeve 6 so as to x the disks I4 in deiinite angular positions on the sleeve. 
 Each setting disk I4 carries nine adjustable teeth of which, however, only four are arranged in usual manner, that is, in the shape of short pins I6 which are displaceable individually in radial slots or channels in the setting disks (Figs. 2 and 9). The ve other teeth I'I are, on the other hand, rigidly interconnected and :formed in the circumference of a rack or sector I8 which is pivotally mounted on the setting disk at I9. The toothed sector I8 is normally swung inwards so that the teeth I'I, as well as the teeth I6, are positioned inside the circumference of the setting disk. As seen from Figs. 8, 12, and 13 the toothed sector is bent approximately at the middle in such a manner that its free end carrying the teeth I'I and its pivoted Iend are positioned in diierent planes on opposite vsides of the setting disk, the bent middle portion extending through a slot 20 in the setting disk. It will be seen that the actuating rack I8 is pivoted to the rotatable disk I2 by a pivot arm of xed length. Y 
 Each setting disk I4 is in usual manner provided with a cam disk 2| (Figs. 8-11) rotatable in relation to the setting disk and disposed coaxially and close thereto. The edge of the cam disk adjacent to the casing 24 of the machine is provided with a numeral arc 22 carrying the numerals 0-9 of which the numeral set or the time being is visible through a slot 23 (Fig. 3) disposed in the casing. 
 The cam disk 2| is provided with a slot, the two ends of which form arcs 25, 25. coaxial with the cam disk and having equal radii while the intermediate portion of the slot forms an arc 26 also coaxial with the cam disk but having a somewhat smaller radius than the arcs 25 and 25'. The threeportions of the slot are interconnected by means of oblique slot portions 21, 21'. Studs or pins 28 on the individually displaceable teeth I6 and also a corresponding stud 29 (Figs. 9, 13) on the toothed sector I8 engage the slot. The studs 28, 29 normally engage the middle arc 26 of the slot, the teeth I6 then b eing retracted into their grooves or channels and the toothed arc I8 being held in retracted position. The teeth I`| are then positioned inside the circumference of the setting disk. 
 The cam disks are adapted to be successively set by means of a key board comprising four keys 30, five keys 30' and one key 30 disposed on the iront side of the machine. The setting takes place in connection with a successive displacement of the carriage 6 on the shaft 5. The carriage normally is in the extreme right hand position shown in Fig. 1. The cam disk appertaining to the rst setting disk reckoned from the left hand side then is in a position in alignment with two setting arms 3|, 3| the rst of which is yadapted to be swung downwards by the actuation of some of the keys of the key board, while the other arm 3|' is adapted to be swung upwards by the actuation f other keys of the key board. The two arms 3|, 3|' are pivoted coaxially with one another and are provided at their free ends each with a stud 32 and 32', respectively. Upon actuation of one of the arms the corresponding stud will engage a radial slot 33 or 33', respectively, in the edge of the cam disk and thereby turn said disk. During the setting operation the cam disks appertaining to the following setting disks will be brought successively into the setting position and will accordingly in turn be operated in similar manner. 
 The keys in the keysystem are disposed in two parallel rows and divided into two groups, one of which 30 consists of the keys corresponding to the numerals 1, 2, 3, 4 and is arranged for cooperation with the upper setting arm 3|. The second group comprising the keys corresponding to the numerals 5 to 9 is arranged for cooperation with the lower setting arm 3|'. 'By the downward motion of the arm 3| caused by the depression of one of the keys by which this arm is actuated, the cam disk appertaining to the setting disk, which at the moment is in the setting position, will be turned in a clockwise direction, while the disk would be turned in a counterclockwise direction if the arm 3| were actuated instead. The zero key 30 upon being pressed down, leaves both setting arms unactuated. The keys in each key row are journalled on common shafts34 and 35, respectively. 
 The two setting arms 3|, 3|' constitute extensions from yokes |00 and |00' (Fig. 18) respectively, which by means of studs 36 are coaxially journalled beside each other in ixed standards 3l, lsaid two extensions being swingable in parallel planes close to'each other. 'I'he two yokes carry between their legs rods 38 and 38', respectively, vparallel with the bearing shaft. Each of said rods is adapted to be caught by the rear end of a pressed down key in a corresponding key group. 
The rear ends of the numeral keys 30, 30 
ywhich ends normally are positioned beneath the ting arm 3|, slope in such a manner as to cause the arm to rotate in a counterclockwise direction upon depression of a corresponding key, while the slots 39' which are adapted to cooperate with the rod 38' to actuate the setting arm 3|', slope in opposite manner. Figs; 20, 21 show diagrammatically the rear ends of the different keys viewed from the left, Fig. 20 representing the key group 30', that is, the keys for the numerals 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 counted from below. Fig. 21 shows in a corresponding manner the ends of the keys for the numerals l, 2, 3, 4 counted from below. The slots 39 and 39' disposed most obliquely (the upper key Shanks in Figs. 20, 21) are somewhat arcuate close to the mouth and extend nearly tangentially in relation to the rods 38, 38'. They thus only gradually attain their full sloping whereby the striking of the key becomes softer. 
 The setting arms 3|, 3|' are acted upon by helical springs 40, 40' tending to pull the arms towards their starting positions in which positions extensions, 4| of the rods 38, 38' are engaged each in the contracted upturned mouths of the lateral cuts 42 and 42 (Figs.'26 and 27) in a swingable yoke-shaped bridge or rocking frame 43 pivoted on the shaft 35 and adapted to bring about the stepwise movement of the carriage upon a key being actuated. The free end of the bridge is normally held by a spring 44 so as to bear against extensions 45 and 45 respectively on the rear ends of the keys. 
 In its normal position the bridge 43 also blocks the cam disk 2| on that setting disk which is in the setting position. This locking is brought about through the intermedium of a locking lever 41, Figures 8, 14 to 16, pivoted on a"stud 46 directly opposite the setting position. The upper end of the locking lever 41 bears against the one end of an angular pawl 48 projecting outside the circumference of the cam disk and pivoted at 49 on that side of the setting disk which is remote from the cam disk. Said pawl is provided with a pointed projection 50 bent over the edge of the setting disk and engaging one of ten locking notches 5| in the edge of the cam disk. Before the cam disk has been set the point 50 engages one of the two locking notches at the middle of the row of notches. The locking lever 41 is, close to its lower end, provided with an abutment 52. Against the front side of said abutment bears normally the upper end of a locking nger 53 projecting in a sloping direction rearwards and upwards from the bridge 43, on which it is supported. 
 All the cam disks are normally held locked in relation to the setting disks by the engagement of `the appertaining locking projections 50 with the notches 5| in the edge of the cam disk. The pawls 48 of the cam disks which have not yet been set are held in locking engagement by a longitudinal locking bar 10, Figs. 22, 23, against which bear the projecting ends of the pawls on said setting disks and along which said ends slide during the stepwise motion of the carriage. Said locking bar terminates close to the setting position, where the locking lever 41, as above mentioned, takes over the locking of the cam disk which is in said position. In those setting disks which already have passed the setting position the pawls 48 are held in locking position by a locking bar 54 (Figs. 5 through 10) passing through the entire series of cam disks and setting disks in axial direction, the upper edge 55 of said bar, Fig. 5, beingk in locking engagement with arms 56 projecting radially inwards from the pawls. Bar 54 is supported directly by the setting discs I4 and cam discs 2| are provided with slots 500 of sufficient extent to permit the necessary rotation of the cam discs relative to the s etting discs and hence relative to bar 54. Right opposite each of the pawls 41 for the disks not yet set, including .the disk in setting position, the locking bar 54 is provided with a recess 51 which allows the arm 5G of the corresponding pawl 48 to swing inwards when the same is released from the circumferential locking. 
 The locking bar 54 is somewhat displaceable in its longitudinal direction and is normally held in its right hand extreme position by a. lever 58 (Figs. 5, '7) pivoted on an arm |0| projecting from the shaft 5. The one end of said lever engages a recess 59 in the locking bar 54 whereas its opposite end is normally heldin retracted position, against the action of a spring acting thereon, by means of a pin 60 displaceably mounted in the lateral wall of the machine which pin, in turn, is held in retracted position by an abutment on the crank so long as said crank is in its position of rest. Y, 
 'Ihe carriage 1 supporting the setting mechanism is embraced by a yoke 6| `(Figs. 1, 26, 27) cooperating with the stepping mechanism which yoke is guided by pins 62 engaging a longitudinal slot in a xed guiding bar |02 (Fig. 2). The two fork-shaped legs 63 of the yoke projecting in a sloping direction rearwards and outwards engage annular slots 64 in the end pieces 1 of the carriage, Fig. 7, so that the carriage is caused to follow the axial displacement of the yoke 6| but is free to turn in the fork-shaped legs 63. The middle portion ,of the yoke 6| is provided with a row of locking teeth 65 along the rear edge, the pitch of said teeth being equal to the length oi the stepwise motion of the carriage. In each setting position of the carriage one of the teeth 65 is in engagement with a. spring actuated pawl 66 rotatably journalled in the front portion of the bridge 43. The pawl 66 is so disposed on the bridge 43 that it, upon the shifting of the bridge by means of the actuation of a key, is lowered and brought out of engagement with the opposing locking tooth 65, the carriage being then displaced half a step to the left by spring power acting thereon. The carriage is then again stopped by the engagement of the next locking tooth with a locking finger 61 rigidly disposed on the bridge which iinger meanwhile has been brought into the path of the teeth. When the key is dropped and the bridge returns to normal position under the influence of the spring 44 the locking nger 61 releases its engagement with the latter locking tooth 65 which now instead is brought to engage the pawl 66 while at the same time the carriage is displaced halfj a step to the left. 
 To explain more clearly the operation of the setting mechanism, assume that one of the keys in the key group 30, by Way of example the key corresponding to the numerical value two, is pressed down while the carriage is in its starting position on the right hand side in the machine. The cam. disk on the extreme setting disk to the left thus takes up the Asetting position directly opposite the setting arms 3|, 3|. When said key is pressed down the rear end of the bridge 43 `is raised by the rear extension 45 of the key. The locking finger 53 is then brought out of locking engagement with the locking abutment 52 of thelocking lever 41 but simultaneously the setting arm 3| is swung down by the engagement of the key slot 39 with the rod 38, an abutment 68 disposed on the setting arm being then initially brought into the path of an abutment 69 at the upper end of the locking lever 41 whereby said lever still is held locked, up to the moment'when the stud 32 on the setting arm enters the slot 33 in the cam disk. At this moment the lever 41 is released and then also the pawl 48, the inwardly projecting arm 56 of which, upon the turning of the cam disk during the continued actuation of the key, enters the corresponding recess 51 in the locking bar 54. The slot 39 in the rear end of the two-key is so shaped that the cam disk upon a complete depression of said key is rotated two steps in clockwise direction, as viewed from the right hand side, twoY of the rod-shaped teeth `i6 being then brought into operative position by the engagement of the corresponding studs 28 with the end portion 25 of the slot, (see Fig. 9 where the cam disk, however, is viewed from the left). When the key is completely pressed down the carriage is moved in above described manner half a step to the left whereby the stud 32 is brought out of engagement with the slot 33 in the cam disk and simultaneously the arm 56 of the paWl 48 5 slides onto the locking edge 55 of the locking bar 54, the locking projection 53 then engaging thatl locking notch 5l on the cam disk which corresponds to the number set up. During the return of the key the setting arm 3| is brought back to the starting position at the same time as the carriage in above described manner is brought a further half-step to the left, whereby the next setting disk' is brought to setting position, its pawl 48 being then brought out of engagement with the longitudinal locking bar 1U (Figs. 22, 23) against which it has previously been bearing and being locked instead by the locking lever 4l, the locking abutment 52 of which has again been engaged by the locking nger 53. The numeral two has now appeared on the extreme right hand side in the elongated slot-shaped window 23 on the front side of the' machine. 
If now one of the keys in the key group 33. 
25 by way of example the 'll-key, is actuated, the rear end of the bridge 43 israised in similar manner as before by the rear extension 45' of the key, and the locking nger 53 is, as before, brought away from the locking lever 4l, but on account of an abutment 33 on the setting arm 3l being brought into the path of an abutment G9 on the lower end of the lever lll, said lever together with the pawl 48 is maintained locked until the stud 32' on the setting arm 3l' is in- 35 serted into the slot 33' in the cam disk. The cam disk is then released and said disk is turned, upon the continued actuation of the key, three steps in the direction opposite to the first setting movement, that is, counter-clockwise in Figure 8 4l) and clockwise in Figure i0 which, as Well as Figure 9, shows the cam disk as viewed from the left in the machine. By this turning ofthe cam disk the stud 29 together with two of the pins 28 are brought outward by engagement with the outer arc 25' of the slot. The toothed sector ld is thus swung out and its five teeth l l are brought into operative position, and two of the rod shaped teeth I6 are brought out in operative position. Altogether seven teeth are now positioned outside the circumference of the setting disk. The carriage has now been brought still another step to the left and the numeral 7 is now visible to the extreme right in the slot 23 on the front side of the machine, whereas the numeral 2 is moved one step to the left` in the slot. The number 2l appears thus at the right hand end of the slot 23. 
 If a key, by way of example in the key group 30, be actuated in an incomplete manner and :restored without any carriage displacement taklng place, the cam disk is restored to zero position by the pin 32, throwing over being, however, prevented because the locking abutment 68, immediately upon the release of the engagement between the pin 32 and the slot 33, strikes the abutment 69 of the locking lever 4l which thereby immediately brings the pawl 48 into locking engagement with the locking tooth space 5I corresponding to the zero position of the cam disk. 
As is readily understood by the above description, one, two, three or four of the rod-shaped teeth.l6 are set for each of the numerals 1 to 4 respectively. For the numeral 5 the 5-teeth I1 are set by the swinging out of the toothed segment I8. For each one of the numerals 6 to 9 the toothed segment I8 and also one, two, three 'recesses 5l or four, respectively, of the rod-shaped teeth I8 are set. 
 Upon actuation of the zero key 30 neither of the setting arms 3l nor 3l is actuated but, on the other hand, the bridge 43 is raised in the same manner as upon the actuation of one of the other numeral keys and brings about a displacement of the carriage in two half-steps in above described manner. To prevent the locking lever 4l from being released during said step- Wise motion during which the locking finger 53, as mentioned above, is brought away from the locking abutment 52 of thelever 4l, the zero key (Fig. 19) is on its upper side provided with' an upturned projection 'll (Fig. 19) which normally is positioned closely beneathl a locking projection 'l2 on the lower end of the locking lever 4l. Said projection ll, however, upon the actuation of the zero key, is moved up against the projection i2 and thereby the locking lever 4l is held in locking position during the entire key motion. 
 After the item has been set in the setting mechanism a multiplication may be carried out by repeated turning of the crank l. In connection therewith a successive displacement of the carriage of the setting mechanism in relation to the results calculating mechanism l may take place. By each rotation of the setting discs the teeth set up are caused to engage in usual manner the intermediate wheels in the calculating mechanism which are rotatably disposed on the shaft i3. The result will then be visible in check openings "i4 on the front side of the machine casing 24. 
 In order to rotate the crank it must first in ordinary manner be axially pulled out from its locking position, the pin E0 being then released. The lever 58 is then thrown over under the inluence of spring power acting thereon and pushes the locking bar 54 to the left a distance equal to the length of a halfstep displacement of the `carriage. The recesses 5l in the locking rbar each of which previously has ,been positioned directly opposite one of the arms 56 of the disks not yet set, are thus displaced in relation to said arms so that the arms will be positioned directly opposite the tooth-shaped portion 'I5 between the As the pawls 48 of the adjusted setting disks still are held locked by the locking edge 55 of the locking bar all pawls 48 are now locked by the bar 54 during the rotation of the crank, said bar then participating ln the rotation of the setting mechanism. 
 Successive displacement of the carriage of the setting mechanism in relation to the product calculating mechanism, during the multiplication, is brought about by pressing down the tabulating key I6v on the front side of the machine (Flg. 30). This key is rotatably disposed on the shaft 35 by a sleeve 'I1 and grips underneath the bridge 43 by a rearwardly extending arm 18. Upon the depression and subsequent release of the key 16 a displacement of the carriage in two half-steps is thus brought about in above described manner. The registration of the multiplier in the revolutions counting mechanism 2, that is the registration of the number of crank revolutions in the different multiplication positions of the ysetting mechanism is brought about through the medium of a shaft I9 operated from the crank H and a sleeve 8| displaceable on 'the 'shaft and carrying a projecting tooth 82 which normally is positioned directly opposite the extreme intermediate wheel 83 (Fig. 2) on the right hand side in the'revolutions counting mechanism. For each revolution of the crank shaft, the shaft 19 is turned together with the sleeve 8| also one revolution, the tooth 82 then engaging the opposing intermediate wheel 83 and thereby bringing forward a corresponding numeral wheel 2 in the revolutions counting mechanism one step for each turn. The number carriage during the multiplication and division through the intermedium of a yoke 84, Fig. 30, bent in an S-shape and swingably mounted on the shaft 19, said yoke carrying a toothed rack 85 which by the turning of the yoke is brought into engagement with a tooth 86 projecting from the fork 63 engaging the left hand. side of the carriage. The shifting of the toothed rack 85 is eiected by actuation of the tabulating key 16 through the medium of a yoke 88 (Figs. 30, 31) journalled on pins 81 against which yoke an arm 89 projecting downward fromv the key 16 bears from below. 'I'he legs 90 of the yoke 88 extend' slopingly upwards and carry a rod 9| extending parallel with the shaft 19. The rod 9| extends through a slot 92 open on the rear side and disposed in a attened arm 93 projecting from the yoke 84 backwards. The right hand leg 90 of the yoke 88 carries on the inside a spring detent comprising a plate 94 displaceable in the longitudinal direction of the leg (Figures 31, 32) which plate by means of a helical spring 95 is held in the shown up-turned position, the plate by means of a locking edge 96 then gripping around a projection 91 projecting downwards from the arm 93, whereby the entire S-shaped yoke 84 is normally held in the starting position shown in Figure 30. The yoke 88 is normally held in the position shown in the drawings by a locking spring 98 the free end of which bears against a bent-over projection 99 of the right hand leg 90. When the tabulating key 16 is depressed the legs 90 of the yoke 88 together with the rod 9| are swung backwards, the S-shaped yoke 84 being then turned by the engagement of the rod in the sloping slot 92 so that the toothed rack 85 is brought into engagement with the tooth 86 projectingy from the carriage, which tooth may be assumed to have been brought to the left one or several steps by the carriage movement during the setting of the multiplicand. The yoke 88 is held in the latter position by the projection 99 having snapped into an angular notch |03 of the spring 98. The toothed rack 85 is thereby held in engagement with the tooth 86 during the entire multiplication operation. Upon the turning of the yoke 88 the locking edge 96 of the spring lock 94 slides away from the projection 91 of the arm 93 whereby the S-shaped yoke 84 is now free and may follow the stepwise motion of the carriage. 
 Freely mounted on the shaft 19 a stamped plate arm I 04, Figures 24, 25, 30, 31, projecting obliquely upwards is pivoted between the Aone end of the S-shaped yoke 84 and the sleeve 8| and guided by a bent-over supporting projection also rotatably pivoted on the-shaft 19, the sleeve 8| is disposed between the arm |04 and the arm 93 extending backwards from the yoke 84, both said sleeve and the yoke 84 will follow the carriage movements during the multiplication. The rod 9| passes through a slot |06 (Fig. 24) in a rearwardly projecting portion |01 of the arm |04, which slot |06 has the shape of a circular arc, the centre of which coincides with the turning axis 81 ofthe yoke 88 whereby the arm |04 is steadily held in a constant angular position independent of the swinging of the yoke 88. The arm |04 carries at its front end a bar |08 projecting to the left across the numeral arcs 22 of the cam disks under the casing parallel with the slot 23. The i'ree end of said bar is, before the beginning of the multiplication, positioned close to the right hand end of the slot 23 (Figure 3). The arm |04 is also provided with an upwardly projecting linger |09, the end of which during the displacements of the carriage during the multiplication, passes a series of round apertures IIO disposed directly beneath the apertures 80 in the casing. In the starting position the point |09 is visible in the extreme aperture to the right where it remains during the setting of the multiplicand. During the multiplication the bar |08 moves with the carriagevand is accordingly movedstepwise to the left so as to cover the ciphers on the cam disks not set so that the set multiplicand, still unaltered, may be read off in the slot 23. 
 The stepwise motion during the multiplication may, of course, also be carried out by means of the zero key 30, registration in the revolution calculating mechanism being then, however, not obtained as the depression of key 30 does not cause the tooth 82 to be coupled to the carriage. 
 The restoration of the diierent parts after completed calculating operation is brought'about by means of an arm III Figs. 28, 29 disposed externally on the left hand side of the machine. 
Said arm is keyed on the outer end of a journal I I2 disposed in the left hand endplate of the machine. toothed segment II3 is keyed and adapted to cooperate with a toothed wheel |I4 keyed to the calculating mechanism shaft 3. From the center of the toothed segment l|3 extends an arm ||5 provided with a circular arcuate extension I|6 concentric with the journal II2. The outer end of the arm |I5 is connected by means of a link I I1, to the one end of an angular lever I I9 pivoted on the bottom of the machine at I I8. The opposite end of said lever carries a stud |20 bearing against a circular arcuate cam surface I2| on an arm |23 pivoted on the bottom of the machine at |22. The rear extension |24 of the latter arm is engaged by a strong helical spring |25. An arm |26 rigidly connected to the arm |23 extends nearly parallel therewith but somewhat above the same. The forkshaped end of the armv |26 is in engagement with a. stud |21 secured to the left hand end of the carriage. p l 
 The arm II5 is provided with a bent over projection |28 adapted to cooperate with an upturned oblique cam |29 on the left hand end piece of the yoke 88 to restore the yoke into normal angular position after completed multiplication. The arcuate extension |I6 of the arm ||5 is at its free end provided with a bent overextension |30 adaptedto cooperate with a sloping surface |3| on an upturned arm l|32 which is keyed onto the left hand end of `a shaft |33 for the zeroizing of the setting mechanism. Said shaft extends parallel with the carriage path. 
On the inner side of the journal'IIZ a The shaft |33 is journalled in a bearing |34 to the left in the machine and also in a bearing plate |35 to the right. Opposite the right hand portion of the shaft |33, (Figs. 22, 23) and on the opposite side of the path of the setting mechanism a yshaft |36 is journalled to which the former shaft is connected by means of an arm |31 keyed thereon, which arm by a stud |38 engages in a slot |39 at the end of an arm illu keyed on the shaft |36. The shafts |33, |36 each carries a number of zeroizing arms |4| and IM', respectively. The arms in the two groups are so disposed that they are positioned in pairs directly opposite the cam disks of the diierent setting disks in the starting position of the carriage. Normally the two groups of zeroizing arms are held swung out from the setting mechanism by means of a spring (Fig. 28) acting on the shaft |33 but are swung inwards at the zeroizing, one of the arms in each pair, that is, either an arm in the group Hill or the opposing arm in the group then engaging a projection |62 (Figs. 2, 17) disposed on the corresponding cam disk. If the cam disk is set on any of the numerals l. to i the zeroizing arm |Q| becomes operative. If the disk, on the other hand7 is set on any of the numerals 5 to 9 it is zeroized by the opposite arm On the shaft two arms Miti are freely mounted, said arms serving as supports for the above mentioned locking bar l@ which normally is held in engagement with the pawls Il@ of the setting disks not set by means of a projection Mill extending from the arm |317 and gripping around the one of the arms Opposite each pair of zeroizing arms |G|, the corresponding setting disk is provided with two arcuate recesses (Fig. 2) which allow the arms to pass freely during the Zeroizing. Also in other respects the setting disk need not be circular but may be provided with suitably disposed recesses to reduce the weight. 
 The arm i, by means of which the parts are restored after the calculating operation, is normally held in the position shown in Fig. 28 by a helical spring M5 engaging the toothed segment Ml. When the arm is brought forward the projection |2|i on the arm 5 of the toothed segment rst touches the cam |29 on the yoke iid which, at the beginning of the multiplication, was swung over so that the cam |29 was swung up towards vthe projection |223. The cam is now pressed down, the yoke titi being then swung back to the starting position shown in Figs. 30, 3l. The locking projection' @Si (Fig. 3l) on the right hand leg of the yoke then snaps out of the locking notch iti?) on the spring @Si and enters instead into engagement with the outer end of the spring. 
 At the same time the toothed segment ||3 is brought into engagement with the toothed wheel ||l| on the calculating mechanism shaft whereby the results calculating mechanism and the revolutions counting mechanism are now zeroized during the continued pull of the handle At the same time the angular lever ||9 is swung over by the link connection to the arm ||5 and brings with it the arms |23, |2|5 on account of the pressure or thecatching stud |22@ against the cam |2|. By the engagement of the arm |26) with the stud |27 secured to the carriage, the carriage is then'restored to the starting position. The arms |23, |26 are brought along until the circular arcuate curve |2| has reached the position shown in Fig. 29 with dashed and dotted lines in which position said curve is concentric in relation to the journal ||8 of the lever H9. In said position of the arm |23 the carriage has been brought somewhat past the starting position. During the'continued motion, during which the zeroizing of the setting mechanism has to be performed, the stud |20 slides on the cam |2| and snaps, at the end of the forward motion of the arm past the point of the arm |23, the carriage then being pulled back by the spring |25 that small distance, which it has been brought past its normal starting position. During the restoration of the carriage the yoke 84 has been brought to its starting position by the tooth 86 on the carriage having engaged a short arm or abutment |46 (Fig. 30) projecting from the yoke. When the yoke Bfi reaches its starting position the locking projection 9| on the arm 93 again snaps in behind the locking edge 96 on the spring lock gli, the yoke being locked anew in starting position (Fig. 32). 
 To enable the free end of the lever ||i (Fig. 29) to pass the point of the arm |223 after completed zeroizing of the setting mechanism said end is jointed and pivotable clockwise from the position shown in Fig. 29. The zeroizing of the setting mechanism is started when the abutment |3|l at the end of the arc |||i reaches the cam surface iti on the arm |32. Said arm is now swung back and turns the shaft both groups of zeroizing arms |f||, iM (Figs. 22, 23) then, on account of the interconnection of the shafts |33, |36, being swung inward toward the setting mechanism and the Zeroizing of the setting mechanism taking place in above described manner. 
 in certain cases, by way or example in division, it is desirable that the results calculating mechanism and the revolutions counting mechanism are not zeroized at the restoration of the carriage to starting position and the zeroizing of the setting mechanism. To avoid the zeroizing of the calculating mechanism in such cases, upon the restoration of the carriage by means of the arm the -iront tooth MV1 on the toothed segment |153 is adjustable and carried by a lever MQ pivoted on the left hand side of the toothed segment at Mil. The tooth |i'| is normally held in the shown projecting position by a spring |ii|l acting on the lever |69 but, when desired, may be swung inwardly out of the path of the opposing tooth |5| on the toothed wheel ||l|. The half of the tooth |5| projecting inwardly is milled out so that the tooth has only half the tooth length in comparison with the other teeth on the toothed wheel iid. For this reason the tooth is continuously out of the path of the xed teeth on the toothed segment ||Z| which, as seen from Fig. 29, has only about half the thickness of the toothed wheel ||(l. rlhe tooth |5| is, on the other hand, positioned in the same plane as the adjustable tooth Mill. The shifting of the latter is brought about by means of an arm |52 disposed on the outside on the left hand side of the machine. Said arm is keyed onto a journal |53 rotatably mounted in the left hand end piece of the machine which journal carries on its inside a cam disk hit. 
 ln the normal position shown in Fig. 28 the arm 52 is held locked by a spring detent snapped into a hole |55 in the end plate and the cam disk iii is in the lower position. 1f zeroizing of the calculating mechanism is not intended to take place upon the restoration of the carriage and zeroizing of the setting mechanism, the arm |52 is swung forward until the spring detent snaps into a hole |56, whereby the lever Mid, by means of the cam disk |54, is swung over against the action of the spring |50 and the tooth |41 is brought out ofoperative position. When the arm is now brought forward the fixed teeth of the toothed segment I3 will pass idle between the two whole teeth on both sides of the tooth |5|, on the toothed wheel ||4. The carriage together. with the yoke 84 is now restored without any zeroizing of the results calculating mechanism and the revolutions counting mechanism taking place. 
 If the carriage during the calculating operation has to be brought to the rightone or several steps a tabulating key |51, Figs. 30, Y33, disposed to the left of the tabulating key 16 is pressed down. The key |51 is also pivoted on the shaft 35. The key |51 is provided with a shoulder |58 gripping over and, upon depression of the key, catching an arm |59 journalled close to the front side of the machine. To the arm |59 an upturned arm |60 is connected which is acted upon by a spring |6|, whereby the arms |59, |60 are normally held in the position shown in Fig. 33 and the key 51 is held in its upper position. Cl'ose to the right hand end of the machine an arm |62 corresponding to the arm |60 is journalled. Both arms carry in common a horizontal flattened bar |63 piv otally connected to said arms. Said bar is displaced to the right and simultaneously somewhat lowered upon the pressing of the key |51. The bar |63 carries a. spring actuated pawl |64, the free end of which, upon the pressing of the tabulating key |51, is brought to the right and is lowered into engagement with a row of teeth |68 along the upper edge of the toothed rack 6| connected to the carriage. 'Ihe motion of the pawl |64 is so adjusted that the carriage is then brought one step to the right. 
 If the last set numeral in the setting mechanism by a mistake has been erroneously set and has to be altered a tabulating key |66 pivoted on the shaft 34 and disposed to the right in the machine is-actuated (Figs. 30 and 31).v Said key onits ibottom side is provided with a sloping cam surface |61 (Fig. 33) cooperating with a corresponding shoulder on the arm |62. The key |66 .further carries an arm |68 projecting rearward, the end of which is positioned beneath a projecting short arm |69 which is keyed onto the zeroizing shaft |33. When the `key |66 is pressed down the arm |62 is swung to the right and the carriage is brought by the pawl |64, in above described manner, one step to the right where it is held on account of the right hand edge of the shoulder |61, upon the continued pressing of the key, sliding on the lower portion of the left hand edge of the arm |62. Upon the continued pressing of the key |66 the arm |68 enters into engagement with the arm |69 on the zeroizing shaft |33 and this shaft is turned, the zeroizing arms 4|, |4|' being then swung in towards the setting mechanism in above described manner to zeroize the last set cam disk. 
The reason why the arms |4 |4 are prevented from restoring all of the set disks upon operation of the tabulating key |66 may be understood from Figs. 1 and 4, from which it will appear that all of'the'resetting'arms |4|, |.4|', with exception of the two arms at the left hand end of the resetting device, are positioned opposite to cam disks which have not yet been set. The two arms at the left are positioned opposite to the cam disk which has just been set and will therefore be operative uponf depression of the tabulating key while all of the other resetting arms will perform idle motion. It should be observed, that the zeroizing operation is normally to be performed after the carriage has been returned to its normal position. 
 In order not to load the carriage with a number of disks which only become operative upon tens transferring and which, besides, should considerably increase the length of the carriage and the machine, a special stationary tens transferring rotor comprising a number of disks |13, Figs. l, 2, is disposed behind the results calculating mechanism I. Said tens transferring rotor is keyed onto a shaft |14 journalled in the frame which shaft is operated from the crank by means of a toothed wheel |15 (Fig. 6) engaging the toothed wheel |2. Each of the tens transferring disks |13 is provided with two tens transferring teeth |16 each disposed at the one end of va lever |11 pivoted on the disk. Only one of said levers is shown on the drawings. The other end of the lever |11 is provided with a cam |18 adapted to be actuated, upon a tens transfer, by a cam surface |19 on a pivoted arm |80. The latter is in turn adapted to be actuated by an abutment |86 on a tens transfer hook |82 which in turn, in known manner, is actuated by the corresponding calculating mechanism wheel during the tens transfer operation, the tens transfer hook being then swung in towards the opposing disk |13 and then sliding up on a cam |83 on the corresponding arm |88, which then is swung in towards the disk and also locked in swung in position by the abutment |8|. 'Ihe restoration of the tens transferring member after completed tens transferring is brought about in a manner known per se by` means of cam'surfaces or the like at the circumferences of the tens transferring disks |13. 
 Both the numeral wheels of the-results calculating mechanism and also the numeral wheels 2 of the revolutions counting mechanism are held locked by pawls |84 provided with pins or abutments |85 normally resting in angular locking notches in locking springs |86. At the release of the pawls upon rotation of the numeral wheels the pins or abutments |85 slide up beneath the free ends of the locking springs |86, whereby the pawls |84 are held out of locking engagement during the rotation of the numeral wheels. The restoration of the pawls |84 into locking engagement with the numeral wheels is brought about by abutments |81 on the disks |13 or by abutments |88 on the cam disks 2|, respectively, which latter abutments cooperate with the lower ends of the detents |84. 
 In the embodiment according to Figs. 34 to 37 the numeral keys 30 and 30' respectively for the different numerals one to nine are each permanently connected to one appertaining shifting arm b1. bz b9 and each of the cam disks is along the edge facing the setting arms provided with a row of slots s1, s2 sg the lengths of which correspond to'the settingv motion for the appertaining numerical value and which are adapted to cooperate with setting studs d1, d2 da on each one of the setting arms b1, bz b9. Said arms areall positioned in the same plane, the setting studs di, d2 da being then distributed along anarcuate line each in front of the mouth of one of the slots s1, s2 ss on the cam disk I9| which is in its setting position. Figs. 36, 37 show the key corresponding to the numeral nine together with the appertaining setting arm b9, in side elevation and in top View respectively. Each of the keys 30`and 30' respectively is by a link |92 jointedly connected to the one leg of a yoke itt pivoted on the shafts |93 and I 93 respectively the opposite leg of said yoke being provided with an arm |95 from the free end of which the appertaining setting arm b1, b2 b9 extends forward in the shape of an arcuate projection. The different yokes |94 grip over each other in such. a manner that the different setting arms upon the actuation of the key may move freely independent of each other. 
 Fig. 38 shows an application of the setting ar rangement described in connection with the ernbodiment according to Figs. l to 33 in an adding machine having a setting mechanism disposed in a carriage and comprising a number of toothed wheels ist. The setting studs 32, 32' on the setting arms tl, Sil', which latter may be adapted to be actuated by means of lseys, in above described manner cooperate with radial slots 33, 33B in the edge of disks lill which are coaxially and rigidly connected to the appertaining setx ting toothed wheel. ln certain cases the slots may be disposed in the toothed wheels proper then each forming internal extensions of one tooth space. The set number is transferred in known manner (the Swedish Fatent No. 632,735) to a swingably disposed calculating mechanism tilt and also to a typing mechanism it@ by means of a number of parallel toothed racks 2li@ which are adapted to be shifted out of and into engage ment with the setting mechanism or the calculating mechanism, respectively. The setting ar rangement having tvvo setting arms Si, 3i may of course also in such adding machines he replaced by the setting arrangement shown in Figs. 34 to 37 having a plurality o setting arms co operating with a corresponding number oi slots in the toothed wheels. 
 lFigs. 39, 4l@ show an application oi the invenn tion in an Udhner machine in which the cam disks in usual manner are adjustable by means or arms or levers 8c2 projecting through slots till. Betere the setting, all levers 2h22 are positioned in an intermediate position nearly at the middle of the slots Zilli. Evidently the manual movements required in the setting operation will only be about one haii oi those required in the ordinary arrangement. By the shown embodin ment the further advantage is gained that two ot the setting positions, that is, those corresponding to the numerals and 9, constitute stop po sitions for the levers 2h12 whereby the setting is `iurther facilitated. The cam disks may otherm wise be designed in similar manner as above den y scribed. The slot in each cam dish is thus in the shown embodiment constitutedy by an intermediate arc 2G having a smaller radins and ex tending on both sides into end portions 25, having larger and mutually equal radii. lThe adjustable teeth may also be disposed in the same manner as above described in that, by way oi example, four of the teeth may be adapted to be set individually whereas rive teeth may be adapted to be shifted in common and formed at the circumference of a toothed sector pivotally mounted on the setting disk. 
 The invention is, of course, not restricted to the shown embodiment but may be modified in difc ferent manners. By Way of example, the tens keyboard may be replaced by a complete keyboard having ten teeth for each setting disk, in which case the setting mechanism evidently need not be displaced during the setting. 
 Instead of forming the setting members ill, ti' in the shape of levers they may be formed also in other manners, by way of example as toothed arcs or toothed racks. 
 The invention may, of course, also be applied in so called cash-registers or other similar apparatus provided with calculating mechanisms. 
ll claim: 
 l. In a calculating machine, in combination, a setting disc, 'a number of adjustable teeth mounted thereon, a cam disc mounted rotatably in coaxial relation to the setting disc, and means cooperating with said cam disc for setting some of the teeth in common upon rotation of the cam disc in one direction from a normal position and for setting the other teeth individually in succession upon rotation of the cam disc in the other direction from the normal position. 
 2. ln a calculating machine in combination, a setting disc, a number of adjustable teeth mounted thereon, a cam disc mounted rotatably in coaxial relation to the setting dise, and means cooperating with said cam disc for setting some of the teeth in common upon rotation of the cam disc in one direction from a normal position and for setting the other teeth individually in succession upon rotation of the cam disc in either direction from the normal position. 
 3. in a calculating machine in combination, a setting disc, a number o adjustable teeth rigidly connected together so as to form a toothed sector mounted thereon, a number of other teeth mom'ited on the setting disc in such a manner as to be adjustable individually, a cam disc mounted rotatably in coaxial relation to the setting disc, means cooperating with the cam disc for setting said toothed sector into operative position upon rotation oi the cam disc in one direction from a normal position, and means cooperating with 'the cam dise for setting the other teeth ln succession upon rotation or" the cam disc in opposite direction from its normal position. 
 ln a calculating machine in combination, a Setting disc, a toothed sector comprising five teeth adjustably mounted in the setting disc, four teeth mounted on the setting disc in such manner as to be adjustable individually, a cam disc mounted rotatably in coaxial relation to the setting disc, means cooperating with the cam disc for setting the toothed sector into operative position upon rotation or the cam disc in one din normal position and for setting the :tour other vteeth in succession upon further rotation in the same direction, and means cooperatlng with the cam disc :tor setting the teeth last mentioned in succession upon rotation of the cam disc in opposite direction trom the normal position. 
 5. in a calculating machine in combination, a setting disc, a number or adjustable teeth mounted thereon, a cam disc mounted rotatably in conial relation to the setting disc, a setting device adapted upon operation to engage the cam disc at the circumference, a key board comprising diferent groups of keys, means under the control oi' one of said groups of keys for rotating the cam disc through the medium of said setting device in one direction lfrom a normal position, and means under the control of another of said groups of keys for rotating the cam disc through the medium of the setting device in the opposite direction from the normal position. 
 6. ln a calculating machine, the combination oi' accumulating mechanism comprising a toothed wheel, differential actuating means therefor comprising a rotatable member having an actuating rack pivoted thereto by a pivot arm of fixed