Calculating machine of the ten 
US-2102700-A
nan
1937-12-21
https://patents.google.com/patent/US2102700A/en
Dec. 21, 1937. 
 E. V. GUSTAFSSO'N 7 ET AL CALCULATING MACHINE OF THE TEN KEY TYPE Filed Nov. 14, 1935 6 Sheets-Sheei l Dec. 21, 1937. E. v. GUSTAFSSON ET AL 2,102,700 
CALCULATING MACHINE OF' THE TEN KEY TYPE 6 sheets sheet 2 Filed Nov. 14, 1933 Dec. 21, 1937. 
E. V. GUSTAFSSON ET AL CALCULATING MACHINE OF THE TEN KEY TYPE Filed Nov. 14, 1933 6 Sheets-Sheet 3 Dec. 21, 1 937. E. v. GUSTAFSSON ET AL, 
CALCULATING MACHINE OF THE TEN KEY TYPE Filed Nov. 14, 1953 6 Sheets-Sheei 4 Dec. 21, 1937. E. v. GUSTAFSSON E! AL Z F Q CALCULATING MACHINE OF THE TEIN KEY TYPE 6 Sheets-Sheet 5 Filed Nov. 14, 1953 & 
 Hue/72 075. fiF/VEST Mu mm 605 T4F55OA/ Dec. 21, 1937. E. v. GUSTAFSSON El AL 2,12,700 
CALCULATING MACHINE OF THE TEN KEY TYPE Filed Nov. 14, 1933 6 SheGtS-ShGi 6 mQQ ZAWNM I. N5 W u RFQ F Na 9% a ing members or stop tongues. 
Patented Dec. 21, 1937 CALCULATING MACHINE OF THE TEN KEY TYPE Ernst Valfrid Gustafsson, St. Essingen, and Gustat Hilarius Hellgren, Malmo, Sweden, assignors to Aktiebolaget Facit, Atvidaberg, Sweden, a joint-stock company of Sweden Application November 14, 1933, Serial No. 698,004 In Sweden November 22, 1932 35 Claims. 
 This invention relates to calculating machines, and particularly to machines of the ten keytype. 
 Calculating machines are already known which are provided with a stationary selector and a shiftable carriage carrying an accumulator and a revolution counter. The machine according to the present invention diflers from the type mentioned in that it includes a shiftable selector, a stationary accumulator and a stationary revolutions counter. This new calculating machine is characterized by the feature that the numeral keys are so combined with a device adapted to actuate means for controlling the number of 0211- culating operations, that the same are brought to cooperate with the said controlling means, 
whereby the numeral keys serve as a. multiplier" key. 
 According to a further'feature of the present invention the multiplier, as also the multiplicand is set up or introduced by means of, the same numeral keys into one and the same selector. 
 A further object of the invention is to provide an adjustable means which, when carrying out a multiplication operation is adapted to lock those calculating members which, though normally operating the wheels of the totalizer, correspond to the multiplier. 
. Further features of the invention will be apparent from the following description having reference to the accompanying drawings which illustrate by way of a preferred example of the invention a ten key calculating machine having a. selector device which consists of a movable carriage or slide supporting movement limit- Similar reference characters are used to designate corresponding parts throughout the several views. 
 Figure 1 shows a vertical section through the main parts of the new calculating machine showing the numeral key and the numeral key together with pertaining mechanisms, the other numeral keys, the accumulator, the revolution counter and other devices not-directly pertaining to the numeral keys having been left out for simplicitys sake. 
 Fig. 2 shows a vertical section through the machine including a starting key. 
 Fig. 3 shows a similar section as Fig. 2 with the starting key in a different position. 
Fig. 4 shows a section through the machine showing the multiplication key and some wheels pertaining to the accumulator. 
Fig. 5 shows a similar section as Fig. 4 but with- (Clu235-79) Fig. 6 shows a similar section as Fig. 5 but with the naught key in a diiierent position. 
 Fig. 7 shows a section throughthe machine in a similar manner as in Fig. 1, it having been assumed that the multiplication key has been 5 actuated and the numeral key 5 has been depressed. 
 Fig. 8 shows a detail pertaining to the selector carriage advancing mechanism. 
 Fig. 9 shows a mechanism, partly in section, 10 for actuating the revolutions counter and a portion of the latter. 
 Fig. 10 shows the same mechanisms in a different position and further also the multiplication key. 
 Fig. 11 shows a general arrangement of calculating machine in a plan view. 
 Fig. 12 shows a stop tongue such as arranged in the selector device. 
, The calculating machine as a whole is enclosed in a housing I and provided with the usual side walls and brackets in which the shafts are journalled and the supporting members are fixed. 
. The machine as shown by way of example, is of the type in which the calculating or actuating members proper consist of toothed sectors 2 which are actuated each by its own spring 3 and are held in their normal or initial position by means of a rod 4 (Fig. 4) which extends through all toothed sectors and rests on one of their spokes 5. Each spring 3 is fixed at one end to its toothed sector 2 and with the other end wound round a rod 3b which is fixed to two plates which are secured to the shaft 6. The sectors 2 may rock about the shaft 6 (compare Figs. 1 and 4). When the machine is operated the calculating sectors are set or swung in counter-. clockwise direction by means of their springs 3 until a finger-like projection I on the sectors abuts against that stop tongue whichin the par- 40 ticular instant has'been actuated in the selector, for instance the tongue 8 corresponding to the numeral value 5 (Fig. 7). During its forward movement the toothed sector is not in engagement with any of the toothed wheels of the 2.0- cumulator, but when the toothed sectors by means of the rod 4 are turned back to their initial position, the toothed wheel of the accumulator, that is to say either the toothed wheel 9 in addition operation or the toothed wheel III in subtraction operation, is simultaneously brought into engagement with its associated. toothed sector 2. This movement of engagement will be more fully described later. 
 15 the The seZector mechanism The selector which in the present case is dis placeable (Fig. 1), comprises a carriage including an inner arcuated plate ii, an outer arcuated. plate 32, side plates 43a and i312 (Fig. 11) and an angular piece i i. Between one leg E5 of the angular piece it and a prolongation of the inner plate ll rollers 36 are mounted to run on a fixed rail ii. To the side plate iizla which connects the two plates ii and i2, is fixed a bracket it having a notch it which is engaged by a rod 2i fixed to the main frame 2!? of the machine. To the prolongation of the inner plate ii is further fixed an angular piece 22 which is provided with notches 23 (Fig. 8). This angular piece is provided at its lower edge with locking teeth 2%. In the plates i l and i2 are arranged slots in which stop members or tongues, for instance 8, are displaceable. Each vertical row has ten such slots with a stop tongue in each of them, said tongues corresponding to the numerical values 0 to 9. The number of such rows in horizontal direction depends on the capacity of the calculating machine. Each stop tongue (Fig. 12) has an opening 25 through which the finger-like projection i on the toothed sectors can pass in those tongues which have not been pressed out of the selector. When such stop tongue is partly pressed out the finger-like projection l abuts that portion 26 of the tongue, which is situated radially inwardly of the opening 25. The stop tongue is provided at its upper end 2'! which is bent at an angle, with a number, for instance with the number 5, and this number will become visible, upon the respective tongue having been actuated, through an opening 28 arranged in the front wall of the machine housing. The stop tongue is further provided with a shoulder 29 with which the same normally rest on the inner plate ll of the selector. These stop tongues are pressed out of the selector to a certain extent of their length by means or" numeral keys. For this purpose each numeral key consists of an arm 38 bent at several angles and pivoted on a rod 3! (Fig. 1). The arm 3!] has at one end the form of a hammer 32 by means of which the stop tongue is partly pressed out. The other end of the arm 38 is pivoted at 33 to a stem 34 extending upwardly and provided at its upper end with a key knob 35. The arm which is pivoted to the key stem has a prolongation 301) which is influenced by a spring 300 which is fixed with one end to the end of said prolongation and with the other end to the frame of the machine. Corresponding parts belonging to the naught key are designated with the same reference characters but with the addition of the letter a. 
The mechanism for setting the machine for multiplication Pivoted to the shaft 3! is further a how 36 common for all numeral keys and having an arm 36b which at its free end has a projection 31 adapted to cooperate with a carriage advancing mechanism (Fig. 8) to be described later. In the neighbourhood of the pivot 33 of the key stem each key arm is provided with a projection 38 having a recess 39 whereby a hook is formed. This hook is adapted to cooperate witha rib 40 on an arm 41 which is pivoted about a shaft 42. Each key arm 30 is further provided with a lateral projection 43 adapted to cooperate with an abutment inform of a finger 44. All these fingers are securely fixed to the shaft 42. To this shaft $2 is further fixed a toothed sector having a stud it to cooperate with the arm ii. The toothed sector is influenced by a spring ll which tends to turn the toothed sector in clock-wise direction. Normally cooperating with the toothed sector is a locking pawl or dog 38 (Fig. 4) which by means of a spring 19 is kept in engagement with the teeth on the said sector. The locking dog is pivoted on a stud 53 fixed to one side wall of the machine. This locking dog has a flange 55 to cooperate with a hook 52 (Figs. 2 and 3) which is operatively connected with a starting key 93, and also to cooperate with a hook 56 which is controlled by the multiplication key and by the bow 36 common to all numeral keys. The starting key also has a lateral projection 431) which cooperates with a finger 44b fixed to the shaft 42. This finger 44b and the projection 431) permit a movement of the toothed sector corresponding to one of its teeth. When the starting key is actuated the locking dog 43 is lifted out of engagement with the toothed sector 45, so that this latter actuated by its spring 4'! turns in clockwise direction until the pertaining finger 44b abuts against the latter projection 43?) on the depressed starting key. The toothed sector iii is moved back step by step in counterclockwise direction through the intermediary of a mechanism now to be described. About the shaft 53 is rotatably mounted a member 54 havmg three arms 55, 56 and 51. The free end of the arm 5'! is in the path of movement of a roller 59 mounted on a rotatable disk 58, and by means of said roller the member 54 thus receives an oscillating movement when the disk 58 rotates. This will be described later. The free end of the arm 56 is pivoted as indicated at EU, to a feed ing or restoring member 6 i. This restoring member is influenced by a spring 62. One arm 63 of the said restoring member rests normally on a pin 65 fixed to one. wall of the machine. The restoring member is further provided with a projection 65 which normally rests on the arm 53. The member (ii and the arm 56 thus form a toggle joint which is kept in the position shown in Fig. 1 by means of the spring 62 and the projection 65 resting on the arm 56. When the arm 57 of the member 54 is actuated by the roller 59 the toggle joint is straightened, so that the member 6| engages with the toothed sector 45 and pushes this latter back one step at a time in counter-clockwise direction. When the parts occupy the position shown in Fig. 1, the member BI is, however, situated out of the path of the teeth on the toothed sector 45, so that this latter when being set can move past the feeding member Si in correspondence to the depressed numeral key or the starting key. The arm 55 has a lateral projection (i'l to cooperate with one arm 68 of a double-armed lever 58, 10 (Fig. '7) which is controlled by the multiplication key. This lever is pivoted about a stud 69. The free end of the other arm 10 cooperates with a stud H fixed to the stem 34a of the naught key. Said lever is influenced by a spring 12 which tends to turn the same in clockwise direction. To the free end of the arm 63 is pivoted at 13 a member 14 which carries the hook 66 (Fig. 4). This member 14 has a prolongation extending downwardly and having a slot 16 which is engaged by a pin ll fixed to the how 36 common to all numeral keys. The arm 68 has a lateral projection 18 which normally, that is to say when the multiplication key occupies its normal lifted-up position, rest on an arm '19 (Fig. 4) which is pivoted at to the stem M of the multiplication key. The arm 19 is pivoted about the stud 82 and is influenced by a spring 83 which'tends to hold the multiplication key in lifted-up position. The stem 8i of this key and the arm 19 are interconnected by a spring 84 which tends to hold the lower end of this stem in engagement with the bracket 85. At the lower end this stem has a catch shoulder 86 which engages with the bracket 85 when the key is pressed down. (Fig. ,5.) At its upper end this stem 8| is provided with a projection 81 which limits the movement of this stem in upward direction. 
 .The hook 52 which also isadapted to cooperate with the flange 5| of the locking'dog 48 (Figs. 2 and 3) is pivoted at 89a to an arm 89 pertaining to a starting key. The arm 89 is pivoted about a stud 90 and at 8I pivotally connected with the stem 92 of the starting key, which stem supports at its upper free end a key head 93. This key is kept in its normal lifted-up position by means of a spring 92?). The hook 52 is influenced by a spring 94 which tends to turn the hook in counterclockwise direction. This movement is limited by a pin 95 fixed to the arm 89 and also by a projection 96 on the hook 52. 
 The arm M which may rock about the shaft 42 (Figs. 1, 2 and 3) is integral with an arm 9i which has a shoulder 98 and a prolongation 30. The shoulder 98 cooperates with a stud I00 fixed to one arm IOI of a member I04 provided with three arms IOI, I02 and I03 and pivoted about a shaft 105. The free end of the arm I02 is adapted to cooperate with the notches 23 of the angular piece 22 which is fixed to the selector. The arm I03 supports a contact member M6 which cooperates with a contact member I01 fixed to the main frame of the machine. These contact mermbers are connected by means of leads I08 and I03 to the circuit of the driving motor of the machine. The arm I03 further has a lateral pro- Jection IIO which normally rests on a bell crank lever III, H2 which is pivoted at M3 to the disk 58 which is securely fixed to the main shaft li t of the calculating machine. The arm iii! of the bell crank lever is influenced by a spring H5 which tends to turn the bell crank lever in counter-clockwise direction. The arm I I 2 is further provided with a hook H6 which is adapted to cooperate with teeth II I on a clutch device II8. This clutch device is securely fixed to the shaft H9 of the driving motor which rotates in the direction of the arrow I20. The main shaft N4 of the machine and the shaft II9 of the motor are separated from each other but arranged in axial alignment relative each other. 
The revolutions counter The revolutions counter C and pertaining mechanisms are shown in Figs. 9 and 10 in two different positions of operation. 
 The quotient register differs from the usual counting devices in that each numeral drum has an individual feeding mechanism that is adapted to be operated from the main shaft I I4. 
 The numerals drums of the quotient register are each provided with a feeding mechanism, and the particular numeral drum which is to register the number of rotations of the main shaft during any one operation is controlled by a coupling mechanism that is adjusted along the series of feeding mechanisms by the movement of the selector carriage. The details of this feeding mechanism will be apparent from the following: 
To the main shaft I I4 of the calculating machine is fixed a cam disk I3l which cooperates with two rollers I32 and I33 mounted on the bifurcated portion on one arm I34 of a double-armed lever I34, I35 which is pivoted about a rod I36. The free end of the arm I35 is pivoted to a bar or link I31 which at its free end is pivoted to a member I38 which is common to all digital orders of the revolutions counter and may be rocked about a rod I39. The member I38 has an upper and a lower bent edge I40 and I4I, respectively, which edges are adapted alternately to cooperate with a plurality of feeding members I42, I43 one for each of the denominational orders of the revolutions counter. Each feeding member I42 is adapted to cooperate with its pertaining toothed wheel I44, which is securely fixed to a numeral drum I45 constituting one denominational order of the revolutions counter which in its entirety is designated C (Fig. 11). The feeding member I43 is adapted to cooperate with a toothed wheel I46 which is constantly in engagement with the toothed wheel I44. Both feeding members I42 and I43 are made integral and adapted to be rocked about a stationary rod I41. The lower feeding member H43 has an elongated slot I48 by means of which it is able to slide on a pin I50 fixed to a swing rod H49 the lower arm of which is bent at an angle. Each swing rod E49 is pivoted at its upper end to member M2 such as indicated at I59 and is pivoted at its lower end at i52 to one of a plurality of arms i53 which may be rocked about a shaft i 5d. Each arm 353 has its free end bent twice to form a iJ-shaped member 5 55 which supports a spindle ititi carrying a control memher I 51 which is united with a tens carrying hook I53. This latter is adapted to cooperate with a corresponding projection I50 on the hub of the toothed wheel M3. Each control member i5? is influenced by a spring Itilaand each swing rod M9 is influenced by a spring Mild. Below all the arms 553 there are two arms ibil (Ibi) which are pivoted about a shaft I62 and are united with each other by means of a bridge piece M33. The free ends of these support a rod I64 which supports a carrying or coupling member H55 of a width corresponding to one denominational order of the revolutions counter. This coupling member M35 surrounds the rod E64 not entirely but only with something more than half the circumference, so th. the member I65 cannot fall off the rod, while on tic other hand the upper surface of the rod is leftentirely free, so that this surface may directly cooperate with the U-shaped portion I55 of all arms I53. To the rod I34 is further pivoted a link I66, the other end of which is pivoted to a, crank pin I67 fixed to an arm Hill) which is attached to the shaft 6. Each control member I57 has a shoulder I68 which normally rests on a rail I69 (Fig. 10) and further a recess I10, which in another position of the control member rides on said rail IE9, and finally a recess IHla which is adapted to cooperate with a projection III of the coupling member I65. A shoulder screw I72 is screwed from underneath into the coupling member I65 and its shoulder engages in a slot H3 in a horizontal arm I14, the other end of which is pivoted by means of a horizontally arranged pin I75 to a blocking device 303, 304, 30441, 305. This locking device is axially displaceable on a rock shaft I76 provided with an axial groove I'II into which extends a peg I18 integral with the member 303. This latter member consists of two arms which are interconnected by a bridge 304 having a tooth 305 adapted to engage one of the teeth I79 arranged on the upper end of the radial inner plate II of the selector carriage. The bridge 39% is bent upwardly to form a rail 399a which is adapted under certain circumstances, to be described later, to engage a notch la in the members I (Fig. 1). To the rock shaft H9 is fixed an arm I89, the free end of which is pivoted to a rod H, the other end of which is pivoted to the arm l9 pertaining to the multiplication key 88. 
The accumulator mechanism Each plate 30 (Fig. 10) constitutes one arm of a double-armed lever 30, I32 (l82a). Between the arms I82 and (I82a) is fixed the rod ii which extends through the toothed sectors 2 (compare Fig. 4). To the arm I82 is pivoted at I83 a link I8 3 which at its other end is pivoted at I85 to an arm I86 which by means of a key is fixed to the main shaft II I. To this shaft is further fixed a cam disk I81 which cooperates with two rollers I88 and I89 mounted on the bifurcated end I99 of an arm I9I constituting one arm of a bell crank lever I9I, I93 pivoted about a shaft I92. The bell crank lever is fixed to a sleeve I94 and at the other end of this sleeve is fixed a companion arm (I95) similar to the arm I93. Between the arm I93 and its companion (I95) extends a spindle I96 about which are pivoted two plates i9? (I98) which between themselves support two minor spindles I99 and 208. The spindle I99 supports the toothed wheels I9 and the numeral drums 20! made integral with the latter, while the spindle 200 supports the toothed wheel 9 which permanently engages the toothed wheels I9. This arrangement with the rock plates I9? and (I98) together with the gear wheels has been made in order to render possible the utilization of the calculating machine for carrying out addition as well as subtraction and multiplication or division, in that the said plates may be rocked about the spindle I96 by means of a rod system 203, 299 which may be actuated by a key or keys in a manner known per se, and therefore these details have not been shown or described in this connection. It may be assumed that in addition or multiplication operations the toothed wheels 9 are to be brought into engagement with the toothed sectors 2, so that the numeral drums Elli will be turned in the direction of the arrow 295 during the said calculating operation. For subtraction, the linkage system 293, 294i is actuated by subtraction key 89' to rock the plates I91, I98 into position for the engagement of subtraction wheels ID with the toothed sectors 2 when the lever system I9 I-I 95 is actuated by the cam IB'I on shaft H9. 
The selector adjusting mechanism The mechanism for advancing the selector carriagestep by step is shown in Fig. 8. As pointed out above, the radially inner plate I l of the selector frame is provided at its lower portion with teeth 29. On the rail or bar I? which extends through the entire length of the machine and which is supported by the uprights 296 and 201, is fixed a stop 208 for a bar 299 displaceable in horizontal direction. This bar is pivoted to two arms ZII] and 2H which are pivoted to the uprights 206 and 207, respectively. The bar 299 has two projections H2 and H3 extending downwardly, and between the projection 2I3 and the rail IT is fixed a spring 2I5 under tension which tends to displace the bar 299 to the right (Fig. 8 which shows the parts seen from the front of the machine). To the bar 299 is pivoted at 2I9 a double pawl escapement ZI'I, ZIB, one pawl iii of which is connected with the projection 2I2 by means of a tension spring 2M which tends to press the other pawl 2H3 of the escapement into engagement with the teeth 29. The movement caused by this spring 2 It is limited by a stop 2I9 mounted on the bar 299. Near the pawl 2i? the escapement is provided with a projection 229 which is located above the projection 9i on the bridge 99 (Fig. l). The selector carriage is influenced by a spring 212i which tends to pull the same in the .direction of the arrow 222. It is to be noted that the spring 22I is considerably stronger than the spring 2I5, so that the selector carriage and the other parts normally are kept in the position shown in Fig. 8. 
 The mode of operation of the various mechanisms will now be described and in order to obtain a general view of the function of the machine during the operations, at first the function of the calculating mechanism and that of the revolutions counter will be explained before the mode of operation of the various keys are described. 
The junction of the calculating mechanism When the main shaft I I9 of the machine is coupled in the manner to be described later to the motor shaft IE9, the arm I88 (Fig. 4) is first rotated in the direction of the arrow I29, whereby the arms I82 (I82a) are rocked together with the shaft 6 in counter-clockwise direction. As a result of this rocking movement the rod 3 releases the toothed sectors 2 which, influenced by their springs 3, also rotate in counter-clockwise direction until the finger-like projections 'i are stopped by the projected stop tongue or tongues which in the particular case shown in Fig. 7 is the tongue 8 corresponding'to the numeral value 5. In those orders of the accumulator, generally designated A (Fig. 11), which are located to the left of the first order of the selector the toothed sectors 2 cannot move, because the selector carries for this purpose plate 225 which normally engages with the notches la and which during the displacement of the selector-carriage step by step is drawn out of these recesses, whereby the respective toothed sectors 2 are released. When thereafter the shaft I Il is turned the second 180", the arms I82 (IBZa) are rocked in clockwise direction and thereby the toothed sectors previously set are restored by the rod ii to the initial position. During the forward movement of the toothed sectors, that is to say in counter-clockwise direction, the cam disk I8? has such position relative to the rollers I88 and I99 and thus relative to the bell crank lever I9I, I93 (I95) that the toothed wheels 9 and ID are out of engagement with the toothed sectors 2, while during the second half revolution of the main shaft Hi the cam disk IBI has such position that one of the said toothed wheels engages with the toothed sector 2. Registration is thus effected in the accumulator while the toothed sectors 2 are restored to initial position. The accumulator A is naturally provided with ten-carrying means which however form no part of the present invention and therefore have not been shown or described. 
The function of the revolution counter a locking device, for instance a Cit tion with the system I 53-461 (Figs. 9 and 10). When the main shaft I I4 rotates one revolution only, as is the case when carrying out a single adding operation, themember I38 has rocked once about the shaft I39 to and fro. Simultaneously the shaft 6 is oscillated to and fro as explained above in connection with the function of the accumulator, whereby and through the intermediary of the link I66 the coupling member I65 is moved up and down along a circular arc with the shaft I62 as centre of rotation. 
 As stated above, for each denominational order of the revolutions counter there is an arm I 53 with a control member I51, further a member I 42, I43. The coupling member I 65, which, as stated above, is of a width corresponding to one denominational order of the revolutions counter, is axially displaceable on the shaft I64, together with the rod I14 and the blocking member 363, and therefore it can cooperate with only one denominational order at a time. Normally all arms I53 are in a raised position, such as shown in Figure 10, in which the shoulder I68 of the member I51 rests on the rail I69. In this position, the 
U-shaped portion I55 of all arms I53 is a shortv distance above the rod I64 and the member I65 .is able to pass through the recess 110a in all iii members I51. When the shaft 6 is oscillated and the arm I61b is moved down and then up again, the rod I64 does not inflence the U-shaped portion of the arms I53. However, in that denominational order of the revolutions counter in which the coupling member I65, I1I is situated, 
 the numeral wheel will be moved forward a step in the following manner: At the beginning of a cycle (one revolution of the shaft II4) the cam disk I3I presses the roller I33 to the right (Fig. 10) so that the upper arm of the double-armed lever I34, I35 will be rocked to the left. The link I31 rocks the member I38 about the rod I39 in clockwise direction, whereby the feeding pawl I43 is rocked into the space between two adjacent teeth of the wheel I46. Shortly thereafter the shaft 6 isrocked in clockwise direction thereby drawing the link I66, the rod I64 and the member I65 downwards. The member I 65 rocks the member I51 in counter-clockwise direction so that its shoulder I68 leaves the rail I69 and the spring I51a draws the member I51 together with the pertaining arm I53, the rod I49 and the feeding pawls I42, I43 downwards, all parts now cupying the position shown in Fig. 9, in which the wheel I46 thus has been rotated half a step in clockwise direction, the wheel I 44 having simultaneously been rotated half a step in opposite direction. Atthe beginning of the second halfcycle the cam disk I3I presses the roller I32 to the left and therefore the upper arm I35, the link I 31 and the lower part of the member I38 move to the right. On account of the angular shape of the lower part of the rod I49 and due to the action of the spring I49a the feeding member I42, I43 will be swung in counter-clockwise direction about the rod I41 and the pawl I42 will enter a space between two adjacent teeth of the wheel I44. Shortly thereafter the link I66 is lifted again, whereby the rod I64, the "arm I53, the rod I49 and the pawl I42 are lifted, so that the wheel I44 is rotated 'half a step in the same direction as before, i. e. counter-clockwise, thus altogether one step. Upon the rod I64 having lifted the arm I53 so much thatthe member I51 with its shoulder I68 again rides on the rail I69, it returns to its initial position, such as shown in Fig. 10. 
 The action of the tens-transfer mechanism of this revolutions counter is similar to that of the mechanism just described. When for instance the numeral wheel in that denominational order in which the member I65, I1I stands, is pushed forwards from 9 to about half-way between 9 and I), the projection I59 presses the transfer hook I58 of the next higher order outwardly; whereby the shoulder I68 of the member I51 will leave the rail I69 and the arm I53 falls upon the shaft I64. At the same time, the pertaining pawl I43 has pushed the wheel I46 of the next higher order half a step in clockwise direction (see Fig. 9). During the second half-cycle, thefirst-named numeral wheel is moved from halfway between 9 and 0 to I), and therefore the said projection I59 is moved out of the way of the transfer hook I58, 
Y so that the wheel I 44 of the next higher order can be rotated the second half step, when the link I66 with the rod I64 lifts the arms I53 which previously had fallen down. 
Setting the machine for adding When a numeral key is pressed down during an adding operation, that is to say when neither the multiplication key nor the starting key has been depressed, a stop tongue is displaced by the hammer 32 out of selector to a certain portion of its length and this stop tongue engages, simultaneously as the selector carriage is moved to the left as above explained, with a slot 8a in a plate 8?) which is mounted in the opening 28 of the housing I (Figs. 1, 7 and 11). When depressing a numeral key the parts with the exception of said numeral key and the common how 36 maintain the positions shown in Figs. 1, 2, and 4. When thereafter the numeral key is again released, the respective numerical value has been introduced into the selector, and in order to now transfer this numerical value to the accumulator A, the starting key 93 is pressed down from the position shown in Fig. 2 to the position shown in Fig. 3. Hereby the following operation is effected: The arm 89 of the starting key is rocked about the shaft 90 in counter-clockwise direction and the hook 52 influenced by its spring 94 follows this movement. The hook 52 in its turn turns the locking dog 48 in clockwise direction against the influence of its spring 49. The spring 94 is stronger than the spring 49. By this movement of the locking dog 48 the toothed sector 45 is released which influenced by its spring turns in clockwise direction together with the shaft 42 and the finger 44b fixed thereto together with all other fingers 44 (Fig. 1). As indicated above, the finger 44b is arranged in the path of movement of the projection 432) on the arm 89 of the "starting key, and the distance between the finger 44b and the projection 43?) is such that the toothed sector 45 only can turn-one step corresponding to a pitch of the toothed sector 45. The pin 46 fixed to the toothed sector has simultaneously released the arm 4I having the rib 40, and this arm which is made integral with the arm 91 is turned, influenced by the spring 91?), in clockwise direction. Certain of the ports are locked against accidental or inadvertent movement by displacing the rib 40 backwards (to the right as shown in Fig. 3). In the first place, the starting key is blocked from a return upwards by the spring 9222, for the reason that the hook 38b is located below the rib 40. Furthermore, this displacement of the rib 40 brings it into engagement with the recess 39 in each one or the numeral keys and in the "multiplication key thus preventing the depressing of any one of these keys. By turning the arm 9l in clockwise direction the three-armed member lill, W2, N13 has been turned in counter-clockwise direction through the intermediary of the shoulder 98 and the pin Wu. The arm )2 engages a notch 23 in the selector frame and locks this latter in the position it occupies at that particular instant. The arm Hi3 closes at I06 and it? (Fig. 3) the circuit for the driving motor of the calculating machine and its projection lit simultaneously releases the coupling member Hi, H2, H6. The motor thus is started and its shaft H9 together with the clutch device M8 rotates. The coupling member H2 is turned by the spring M5 about the stud M3 into the path of movement of the ill of the clutch device H8, and as soon as the hook M6 has come into engagement with one of said teeth ill, the disk 58 and thus the machine shaft HQ are carried along and rotate in the direction of the arrow I20. When the disk 58 has completed about =34; of one revolution the roller 59 influences the arm 5? and presses the latter together with the arms 55 and 58 in clockwise direction, thereby carrying along the feeding or restoring member 61! which is influenced by its spring 52 and engages with the toothed sector 65 and pushes this latter back one step in counterclockwise direction. By this movement of the toothed sector the following operation comes about: The pin it presses the arm M one step to the left, whereby the rib lu releases the starting key 93 which is lifted by its spring 92b to its normal position. Hereby the hook 52 releases the locking dog Q8 which again snaps into the teeth of the toothed sector 85, so that this latter is held in this new position, that is to say in the present case in its original initial position. Together with the turning of the arm ll also the shaft Q2 and thus the arm 9'?! have been turned in the same direction, and this arm 97 has through the intermediary of the spring 9% turned the three-armed member lfll, m2, 603 in clockwise direction. By this means the circuit for the motor is interrupted at I G6, ml, so that the motor immediately thereafter comes to a standstill. Simultaneously the projection lit has been moved into the path of movement of the coupling hook H2, so that this latter is pressed back to the position shown in Figs. 1 and 2, and further the disk 58 and thus the main shaft lit of the machine is stopped in the position as shown. In order to provide place for the projection Mil, when the arm 91 turns the member mi, W2, W3, the disk 58 is provided with a recess 5%)?) in front of the coupling member H2. 
 The main shaft of the machine has thus carried out one revolution and during this revolution the numerical value introduced into the selector has been transferred to the accumulator A and the revolutions counter C is caused to register one, The rest of the parts occupy again the position shown in Figs. 1, 2, and 4. Upon the selector carriage having been returned to the initial position and the partly pressed out tongues 8 having simultaneously and automatically also been pressed back to their initial positions, the selector is ready for having a new item set up in the same. 
Setting the machine for multiplication When the machine is to be utilized for carrying out a multiplication the same numeral keys which are used for setting up the multiplicand in teh selector will also be used for determining the multiplier. In this case the mode of operation of the machine is as follows: Upon an item (a multiplicand) having been set up in the selector in the manner just described, the multiplication key 88 is depressed, which is kept in this pressed-down position by means of the catch shoulder 86 and the bracket 85 against the action of the spring 83 (Figs. 4 and 5), When pressing down this key 88 the arm 79 has been turned in counter-clockwise direction, whereby the following parts are influenced: the lever 68-4!!! is released and is turned by its spring 32 in clockwise direction, in that its projection l8 follows the movement of the arm 19. By this means the member 7 3 with the hook 66 has been moved downwards, the portion 75 thereof with its slot it having slid along the pin Tl on the bow 36 of the numeral keys. The hook 68 is now situated in front of the projection H of the locking dog 38. The arm 79 also influences the rod l8l, whereby the rock shaft H6 is turned in counter-clockwise direction, so that the rail 394111 on the bridge 303 is located in alignment with the notches la in the fingerlike projections of the toothed sectors 2. Simultaneously the tooth 395 has been brought into engagement with a notch H9 in the selector, so that the member 303 is locked to the selector. This has the result that during the lateral displacement of the selector carriage, following thereafter, also the coupling member i6 5 follows in axial direction, so that the revolutions counter will be caused to register the number of revolutions in the particular denominational order. The rest of the parts with the exception of the lever 68, it occupy until further the positions shown in,Fig. 1. When now a numeral key, for instance the key 35 corresponding to the numerical value 5, is pressed down the following occurst-The bow 36 common to all numeral keys is turned in counter-clockwise direction, and this time the locking dog t8 is not influenced by the hook 552, as is the case when depressing the starting key, but is influenced by the hook 66 through intermediary of the pin Tl and the part 75 (Fig. 7). Thereafter the toothed sector 35 is turned, influenced by its spring 57, in'clockwise direction and by this means the shaft i2 and the fingers (iii fixed thereto are also turned in clockwise direction. The particular finger M which corresponds to the selected numeral value 5 will rest against the projection (13 on the arm SE of the numeral key in question, allowing the toothed sector 65 to rock through an angle corresponding to five teeth. Simultaneously the arm M is released by the pin it and is turned together with the arm 97 to the position shown in Fig. 7, whereby the motor is started in the manner above described and the arm 682 looks the selector carriage, in that it engages a notch 23 of the latter. The influence of the projection 37 on the escapement 2H, 2&18 (Fig. 81 does not in this case result in a displacement of the selector carriage, because the arm Hi2 engages the notch 23 at the same time as the dog 2? is pressed' out of engagement with a tooth 23. On account of the influence of the spring 2th the bar 299 with the pawls 2W, M8 are moved somewhat to the right, so that later on, when the arm it? again releases the selector carriage this latter is displaced a step to the left (Fig. 8 As indicated above, each numeral key has a projection 38 and this projection is located below the rib lli, so that the key 35 cannot move upwards till until the arm ti has again been turned to its initial position. This arm 4i however rests in the position shown in Fig. 7 on account of the influence of the spring 91b, until the toothed sector with its spring 46 has been turned five steps in counter-clockwise direction and thereby has pressed the arm 4| to the position shown in Fig. l. The toothed sector 45 is moved back to the initial position in a similar manner as explained above in connection with the single adding operation, but in this case step by step five times through the intermediary of the roller 59, the member 55, 56, 5'! and the restoring member iii. Each time the roller 59 influences the arm 51, the toothed sector is moved a step in counterclockwise direction. As stated above the arm 55 has a projection 61 which engages the arm 68 from underneath (Figs. 1 and 7). This projection has the purpose to lift the arm 68 and thus the hook lit immediately upon the toother sector having been released in order to release the looking dog id, so that this latter may again take up its function. When the roller 59 actuates the arm 51 the first time, the arm 68 is lifted, so that the locking dog 48, influenced by its spring 49, again engages with the toothed sector it before the restoring member 6| has completed its stroke. During the actuations of the arm by the roller 59 following thereafter, the hook to is moved only in the direction towards the projection 5i without, however, bringing the locking dog ill out of engagement with the toothed sector 35. Upon the toothed sector in this manner having been moved back five steps to the initial position, the pin 46 brings the arm 4| along to the left and thereby the clutch device H6, ill is opened in the manner described above; further, the arm H02 releases the selector carriage, the rib it releases the key 35 and the how it releases with its portion t! the escapement till, 2H8, so that the selector carriage influenced by its spring 22!] is displaced as above indicated one step to the left and the motor is stopped. During these five revolutions of the main shaft of the machine the item set up in the selector has thus been transferred five times to the accumulator A, and this in those orders which are situated at the extreme right of the accumulator. Further the multiplier, namely the item 5, has been introduced into the revolutions counter in its first order, that is to say in the order at the extreme right of Fig. 11. At the end of this multiplication operation the selector carriage has been displaced, as indicated above, one step to the left (Fig. 11) and this d splacement is also carried out by the member 303, inasmuch as this member by depressing the multiplication key has been locked to the selector (Fig. 5. See also applicants U. S. Patent 1.930.475) The multiplication key remains in the pressed-down positiqnbut may be released in usual mannerby at firstpressing the button $8 of the key somewhat back in order to release the catch shoulder 86 from the bracket 85 and. then releasing the key. 
 In case the multiplier consists of several ligures, for instance 35, a multiplication is carried out in known manner at first with the unit item 5 and thereafter with the tens item "3". As a continuation to the example above referred to it shall now be assumed that the item set up in the selector also is to be multiplied with a tens item 3. that is to say with thirty. The selector and the member 303* are situated one step to the left after. the first multiplication operation, which means that the member 803 with its rail Slide locks the prolongation l pertaining to the first denominational order of the accun1u lator (Fig. 5). At the same time the coupling member it? lies in the second denominational order of the revolutions counter counted from the right. If now the numeral key corresponding to the value 3 is depressed and under the supposition that the multiplication key 88 is still in its pressed-down position, the above described multiplication operation will be repeated with the difierence that this time the toothed sector 45 is turned three steps only to the right for the reason that the finger 4t abuts against the projection id on the numeral key 3. By this turning of the toothed sector the pin 46 is removed from the arm ll, so that the motor is started in the manner above described, which has the result that the toothed sector is turned back three steps to the initial position. During these three steps, that is to say, during three revolutions of the main shaft lid of the machine, the item set up in the selector has been transferred three times to the accumulator, namely in those denominational orders which are located to the left of its first denominational order. At the same time the figure 3'has been set up in the revolutions counter in its second order counted from the right. The accumulator thus indicates the result of the product between the multiplicand and the multiplier and the revolutions counter indicates the multiplier, that is to say 35. After th s multiplication operation the selector carriage is again moved a step to the left in which movement follows the member 363. 
 When in adding operation the item is set up in the selector, the how 36 is actuated in the same manner as when depressing any of the other numeral keys, and the tongue corresponding to the figure 0 ispartly pressed out of the selector by means of the hammer 3211. At the same time the selector carriage is displaced one step to the left through the intermediary of the member 3i connected with the how 38. When carrylog 'out a multiplication, the accumulator must not be influenced, as is well known, when the multiplier contains the figure 0, for instance in case the multiplier is constituted by the figure 805, Upon the multiplication having been carried out in the manner above stated tor the item and the selector carriage has been displaced one step to the left, and if thereafter the naught lzey a is pressed down, the selector carriage only is to be displaced a further step to the left without the motor being started or without any item being registered. For this purpose the arm it of the lever 68 extends below the pin H on the stem 3% of the .naught key when the multiplication key 88 is pressed down (Fig. 6). In this position the hook is situated a minor distance in front of the projection ti on the locking dog 48 which engages the toothed sector (compare Fig. 2). As explained above the hook 66 will when depressing a numeral key, that is to say one of the keys corresponding to the figures "l to "9, lift the loclnng dog 48 out of engagement with the toothed sector 45. However, when depressing the naught key 3511 the lever 68, i0 is turned about the stud 69, which means that the hook 6B is lifted above the projection 5i of the locking dog 48, so that when the how 36 is actuated the hook 66 through the intermediary of the pin 'l'l swings past the proiection 8| without bringing the locking dog 48 out of engagement with the toothed sector 45. 
ti l) all (ill 
. value set on said selector mechanism, and cal- Setting the machine for subtracting When a subtraction is to be carried out the base figure is introduced into the accumulator in the same manner as in an adding operation. 
Thereafter the selector carriage is returned to the initial position and the value which is to be subtracted is set up in the selector, and the bridges ltli, (its) (Fig. 4) are rocked about the studs 6% by means of the rod system 283, 2M and the subtraction key $8 in such a manner that at the following rotation of the main shaft lid of the machine the toothed wheel ill is brought into engagement with the toothed sector 2 which has the result that the item now in the selector will be subtracted from the item in the accumulator during the return stroke of the toothed sectors 2. 
What we claim is:- 
 1. In a calculat ng machine adapted to perform different types of calculation, the combination with a frame, an accumulator and a revolutions counter mounted on supports in said frame, selector mechanism upon which numerical values of a plurality of denominations may be set, a single set of ten number keys for setting values in said selector mechanism, and means operative to transfer to the accumulator a numerical value which may be set on said selector mechanism by the actuation of one or more of said number keys, of control means common to all number keys for initiating the operation of said transfer means and for controlling the number of successive transfers to said accumulator of the numerical culation controlling means including a setting key for setting said control means for and initiating a single transfer and a second setting key for conditioning said control means for a plurality of transfers in-accordance with the type of calculation to be performed, said calculation controlling means including means operable upon the actuation of any one of said number keys to adjust said control means for and to initiate the performance of the number of transfers corresponding to the actuated number key when said number key is actuated following the actuation of said second setting key. 
 2. In a calculating machine adapted to perform different types of calculation, the combination with a frame, an accumulator and a revolutions counter mounted on supports in said frame, selector mechanism upon which numerical values of a plurality of denominations may be set, a single set of ten number keys for setting values in said selector mechanism, and means operative to transfer to the accumulator a numerical va ue which may be set on said selector mechanism by' the actuation of one or more of said number keys, of control means common to all number keys for initiating the operation of said transfer means and for controlling the number of'transfers to said accumulator of the numerical value set on said selector mechanism, adjusting means operable by the actuation of any one of said number keys to adjust said control means for the number of transfers corresponding to the actuated numeral key, said adjusting means being normally inoperative, and setting means including a setting key for rendering said adjusting means operative when the desired type of calculation includes a plurality of transfers. 
 3. In a calculating machine adapted to perform different types of calculation, the combination with a frame, an accumulator and a revolutions counter mounted on supports in said aicavoo frame, selector mechanism upon which numerical values of a plurality of denominations may be set, 
a single set of ten number keys for setting values in said selector mechanism, and means operative to transfer to the accumulator a numerical value which may be set on said selector mechanism by the actuation of one or more of said number keys, of control means common to all number keys for initiating the operation of said transfer means and for controlling the number of transfers to said accumulator of the numerical value set on said selector mechanism, means for normally locking said control means, and a setting key adapted to release said locking means. 
 i. In a calculating machine adapted to perform different types of calculation, the combination with a frame, an accumulator and a revolutions counter mounted on supports in said frame, selector mechanism upon which numerical values of a plurality of denominations may be set, a single set of ten number keys for setting values in said selector mechanism, and means operative to transfer to the accumulator a numerical value which may be set on said selector mechanism by the actuation of one or more of said number keys, of control means common to all number keys for initiating the operation of said transfer means and for controlling the number of transfers to said accumulator of the numerical value set on said selector mechanism, means for normally locking 30 said control means, means including a starting key for releasing said locking means to set said control means for a single transfer, setting means for releasing said locking means when a plurality of transfers are desired, said setting means including a setting key, and means operated by the actuation of any one of said numeral keys after actuation of said setting key for setting said control means for the number of transfers corresponding to the actuated number key. 
 5. In a calculating machine adapted to perform difierent types of calculation, the combination with a frame, an accumulator and a revolutions counter mounted on supports in said frame, selector mechanism upon which numerical values of a plurality of denominations may be set, a single set of ten number keys for setting values in said selector mechanism, and means operative to transfer to the accumulator a numerical value which may be set on said selector mechanism by the actuation of one or more of said number keys, of control means common to all number keys for initiating the operation of said transfer means and for controlling the number of transfers to said accumulator of the numerical value set on said selector mechanism, setting means adapted to be rendered operative at will when the type of calculation requires a multiple transfer of the set numerical value to the accumulator, and means actuated by each of said number keys when said setting means is rendered operative for adjusting said control means for the number of transfers corresponding to the value of the actuaioaroo lar adjustments upon the same, said fingers constituting steps which determine the number of transfers to be made by said transfer means, and said number keys actuated means comprises means for rendering that finger operative which corresponds to the actuated number key. 
 8. A calculating machine as claimed in claim 5, wherein said control means includes a shaft and a plurality of fingers fixed thereto, in different angular adjustments upon the same, said fingers constituting stops which determine the number of transfers to be made by said transfer means, and said number keys actuated means comprises means for rendering that finger operativewhich corresponds to the actuated number key, in combination with an additional finger on said shaft for adjusting said control means for one transfer, and a setting key operable independently of said number keys for rendering said additional finger operative. 
 9. In a calculating machine adapted to perform different types of calculation, the combination with a frame, an accumulator and a revolutions counter mounted on supports in said frame, selector mechanism upon which numerical values of a plurality of denominations may be set, a single set of ten number keys for setting values in said selector mechanism, and means operative to transfer to the accumulator a numerical value which may be set on said selector mechanism by the actuation of one or more of said number keys, of control means common to all number keys for initiating the operation of said transfer means and for controlling the number of transfers to said accumulator of the numerical value set on said selector mechanism; said control means comprising a pivotally mounted toothed sector, a spring for turning said sector in one direction, and restoring means periodically actuated by said transfer means for turning said sector in the op posite direction. 
 10. In a calculating machine adapted to perform different types of calculation, the combination with a frame, an accumulator and a revolutions counter mounted on supports in said frame, selector mechanism upon which numerical values of a plurality of denominations may be set, a single set of ten number keys for setting values in said selector mechanism, and means operative to transfer to the accumulator a numerical value which may be set on said selector mechanism by theactuation of one or more of said number keys, of control means common to all number keys for initiating the operation of said transfer means and for controlling the number of transfers to said accumulator of the numerical value set on said selector mechanism; said control means comprising a pivotally mounted toothed sector, locking means for said sector, spring means for turning said sector in one direction upon release of said locking means, movable means actuated by such turning of said sector to. block said selector mechanism, and restoring means periodically actuated by said transfer means for turning said sector in the opposite direction to reset the same. 
 11. A calculating machine as claimed in claim 10, wherein said transfer means includes a motordriven shaft, transfer mechanism, and a clutch for coupling said shaft and transfer mechanism; and said movable means actuates said clutch. 
 12. A calculating machine as claimed in claim 10, wherein said transfer means includes a motordriven shaft, transfer mechanism, and a clutch for coupling said shaft and transfer mechanism; 
and said control means includes a motor-switch, said movable means controlling said motor-snitch and clutch. 
 1" in a calculating machine adapted to perform difierent types of calculation, the combination with a frame, an accumulator and a revolutions counter mounted on supports in said frame, selector mechanism upon which numerical values of a plurality of denominations may be set, a single set of ten number keys for setting values in said selector mechanism, and means operative to transfer to the accumulator a numerical value which may be set on said selector mechanism by the actuation of one or more of said number keys, of control means common to all number keys for initiating the operation of said transfer means and for controlling the number of transfers to said accumulator of the numerical value set on said selector mechanism, said transfer means including a main shaft and transfer mechanism actuated thereby to transfer the set value to said accumulator once for each rotation of said shaft; said control means comprising a pivotally mounted toothed sector, spring means for turning said sector in one direction to initiate the operation of said transfer means, a bell crank lever carrying a restoring pawl for actuating said toothed sector in the opposite direction, and a disk carrying cam means for actuating said bell crank, said disk being fixed to said main shaft of the transfer means. 
 14. A calculating machine as claimed in claim 13, wherein said restoring pawl is mounted on one arm of said lever to form a toggle mechanism, and spring means normally retains said pawl out of the path of movement of said toothed sector, the rocking of said lever by said cam means fiattening said toggle mechanism to carry said pawl into engagement with said toothed sector. 
 15. In a. calculating machine adapted to perform different types of calculation, the combination with a frame, an accumulator and a revolutions counter mounted on supports in said frame, selector mechanism upon which numerical values of a plurality of denominations may be set, a single set of ten number keys for setting values in said selector mechanism, and means operative to transfer to the accumulator a numerical value which may be set on said selector mechanism by the actuation of one or more of said number keys, of control means common to all number keys for initiating the operation of said transfer means and for controlling the number of transfers to said accumulator of the numerical value set on said selector mechanism; said control means comprising a pivotally mounted toothed sector, a releasable locking means for said sector, a spring for turning said sector in one direction when said locking means is released, a releasing device for said locking means, a bridge and means to condition the same for displacement upon the actuation of any one of said numeral keys, and a pin and slot connection between said bridge and saidreleasing means. 
 16. In a calculating machine adapted to perform different types of calculation, the combination with a frame, an accumulator and a revolutions counter mounted on supports in said frame, selector mechanism upon which numerical values of a plurality of denominations may be set, a single set of ten number keys for setting values in said selector mechanism, and means operative to transfer tothe accumulator a numerical value which may be set on said selector mechanism by the actuation of one or more of said number keys, of control means common to all number keys for initiating the operation of said transfer means and for controlling the number of transfers to said accumulator of the numerical value set on said selector mechanism; said control means comprising a pivotally mounted toothed sector, a releasable locking means for said sector, a spring for turning said sector in one direction when said locking means is released, a lever carrying a releasing device adapted to cooperate with said locking means, spring actuated means normally retaining said lever in inoperative position to prevent engagement of said releasing device and said locking means, setting means ineluding a manual setting key for'moving said lever into operative position to carry said releasing device into proximity to said locking means, a bridge adapted to be displaced upon the actuation of any one of said numeral keys, and a pin and'slot connection between said bridge and said releasing means. 
I 17. A calculating machine as claimed in claim 16, in combination with means carried by the naught key of said set of number keys for displacing said lever into inoperative position upon actuation of said naugh key following a movement of said lever into operative position by said setting means. 1 v 
 18. In a calculating machine having an accumulator, a ten key item set up mechanism, ten item keys, and means to transfer the items set up to the accumulator; mechanism for controlling the number of transfer operations from said item set up mechanism to said accumulator, said control mechanism comprising a toothed member, a locking pawl and a restoring pawl for cooperation with the toothed member, said locking pawl normally engaging said toothed member to retain thesame in inoperative position, 1 
spring means for moving said member upon the release of said locking pawl, a key and setting means actuated thereby to release said locking pawl and to limit the movement of said toothed member to a displacement corresponding to the pitch-of one tooth, retaining means operative only when said toothed member is'moved to retain said setting means in actuated position, means actuated by the movement of said toothed member to initiate operation of the transfer means, and means operated by said transfer means to actuate said restoring pawl to restore said toothed 'member to its normal inoperative position, whereby said retaining means is rendered inoperative, thereby releasing said setting means for moving said member upon the release of said locking pawl, a control key and means actuated thereby to move a releasing device into operative position, means operative upon the actuation of any significant item key to operate said releasing device to release said locking pawl and to limit the displacement of said toothed member to a displacement equal to the number of teeth-corresponding to the actuated item key, means operated by the movement of said toothed member to initiate operation of the transfer means, means actuated by an element of the transfer means to operate said restoring pawl to, effect a one-tooth return movement of said toothed member for each operation of said transfer means corresponding to one transfer of the set numerical value to said accumulator, whereby said toothed member is restored to inoperative position upon the completion of a number of transfers correspondingto the actuated item key. 20. In a calculating machine having an accumulator, a ten key item set up mechanism, ten item keys, and meansto transfer the items set up to the accumulator; mechanism for controlling the number of transfer operations from said item set up mechanism to said accumulator, 
said. control mechanism comprising a toothed member, a locking pawl and a restoring pawl for cooperation with the toothed member, said locking pawl normally engaging said toothed member to retain the same in inoperative position, spring means for moving said member upon the release of said locking pawl, a lever carrying a releasing device, key-actuated means for moving said lever to bring said releasing device into operative position with respect to said locking pawl, means thereupon operative upon the actuation of any significant item key to operate said releasing device to release said locking pawl and to limit the displacement of said toothed member to a displacement equal to the number of teeth corresponding to the value of actuated item key, means operated by the movement of said toothed member to initiate operation of the transfer means, means actuated by an element of the transfer means to operate said restoring pawl to effect a one-tooth return movement of said toothed member for each operation of said transfer means corresponding to one transfer of the set numerical value to said accumulator and to periodically actuate said lever to move said retaining means into an inoperative position, 
thereby to cooperate with said restoring pawl to effect a step-by-step return of said toothed member into inoperative position. 
 21. In a calculating machine, control mechanism as claimed in claim 20, wherein said toothed member is an arcuate sector fixed to a pivotally mounted shaft. 
 22. In a calculating machine, an accumulator, a selector mechanism and ten number keys for setting a desired numerical value on said selector mechanism, transfer means for transferring to said accumulator a numeral value set on said selector mechanism, said transfer means comprising transfer mechanism having a main shaft adapted to be connected by a clutch to an operating shaft, and control means for actuating said clutch in accordance with the desired number of transfers of the set numerical value; said control means including a pivotally mounted toothed sector, a member actuated thereby, and a three armed lever actuated by said member, one arm of said lever controlling said clutch to engage the 'same upon a displacement of said toothed sector to actuate said member and thereby said lever. 
 23. In a calculating machine, an accumulator, a selector mechanism and ten number keys for setting a desired numerical value on said selector mechanism, transfer means for transferring to said accumulator a numeral value set on said selectormechanism, said transfer means comprising transfer mechanism having a main shaft aicavcc adapted to be connected by a clutch to an operating shaft, and control means for actuating said clutch in accordance with the desired number of transfers of the set numerical value; said control means including a pivotally mounted toothed sector, locking means normally retaining said sector in inoperative position, a spring for moving said sector into operative position upon release of said locking means, key actuated means for releasing said locking means, and means for retaining said key actuated means in actuated position so long as said sector is displaced from inoperative position. 
 24. In a calculating machine, an accumulator, a selector mechanism and ten number keys for set-ting a desired numerical value on said selector mechanism, transfer means for transferring to said accumulator a numeral value set on said selector mechanism, said transfer means com-- prising transfer mechanism having a main shaft adapted to be connected by a clutch to an operating shaft, and control means for actuating said clutch in accordance with the desired number of transfers of the set numerical value; said control means including a pivotally mounted toothed sector, locking means normally retaining said sector in inoperative position, a spring for moving said sector into operative position upon release of said locking means, means operable manually into position for actuation by any one of said number keys to release said locking means, and means operative upon the movement of said sector when said locking means is released for locking the actuated key in actuated position and for preventing actuation of any other key so long as said sector is displaced from inoperative position. 
 25. In a calculating machine, an accumulator, a selector mechanism and ten number keys for setting a desired numerical value on said selector mechanism, transfer means for transferring to said accumulator a numeral value set on said selector mechanism, said transfer means comprising transfer mechanism having a main shaft adapted to be connected by a clutch to an operating shaft, and control means for actuating said means including a pivotally mounted tooth'ed sector, locking means normally retaining said sector in inoperative position, a spring for moving said sector into operative position upon release of said locking means, a starting key, means operable by one of said keys for releasing said locking means, a bell crank lever pivoted for movement about the axis of said toothed sector, means carried by one arm of said lever for preventing actuation of any of said keys so long as said toothed sector is displaced from inoperative position, a second lever for controlling said clutch, and a one-way connection between the second arm of said first lever and an arm of said second lever. 
 26. In a calculating machine adapted to perform different types of calculation, the combination with a frame, an accumulator and a revolutions counter mounted on fixed supports in said frame, a multiple denomination selector mechanism including a single set of ten numeral keys, means for transferring to said accumulator a numerical value which is set upon said selector mechanism by actuation of said numeral keys, means operable after a first numerical value has been set to prevent the transfer to said accumulator of a further numerical value which may be thereafter set upon said selector mechanism by one of said numeral keys, vand control means operable by the setting of said further numerical value by one of said keys to effect the transfer to said accumulator of a total value equal to a multiple of the first numerical value set upon said selector mechanism. 
 27. A calculating machine as claimed in claim 26, in combination with means for registering upon said revolutions counter the said further numerical value set by one of said keys. 
 28. A calculating machine as claimed in claim 26, in combination with means for determining the sense in which said first numerical value is transferred to said accumulator. 
 29. In a calculating machine adapted to perform different types of calculation, the combination with a frame, an accumulator anda revolutions counter mounted on fixed supports in said frame, a multiple denomination selector mechanism including a single set of ten numeral keys, means for transferring to said accumulator a numerical value which is set upon said selector mechanism by actuation of said numeral keys, means operable after a first numerical value has been set to prevent the transfer to said accumulator of a further numerical value which may be thereafter set upon said selector mechanism by one of said numeral keys, and control means operable by the setting of said further numerical value by one of said keys to effect the transfer to said accumulator of a total value equal to the product of the first and the further numerical value set upon said selector mechanism. 
 30. A calculating machine as claimed in claim 26, wherein said transfer means includes members cooperating with said selector mechanism for actuating said accumulator by increments corresponding to the numerical values set in the several denominations of said selector mechanism, and said preventing means includes a rock shaft, a setting key for rocking said rock shaft, and means carried by said rock shaft for displacement into position to prevent actuation of cer tain of said members in accordance with the setting of said selector mechanism. 
31. In a calculating machine, an accumulator, 
 a selector mechanism upon which a numerical value may be set, means for transferring the set numerical value to said accumulator, and control means for said transfer means; said selector mechanism comprising a carriage having a plurality of columns of ten value members, a single set of ten number keys for selectively actuating the desired value member of one of said columns, means for advancing said carriage to bring an adjacent column of value members into cooperative relation to said number keys, whereby a multiple-denomination numerical value may be set upon said selector mechanism by the successive actuation of the number keys; said transfer means including a movable calculating member for each denomination of said selector mechanism, the actuated value members serving as stops to limit the movement of said calculating members, and means actuated in accordance with the degree of movement of said calculating mem-'- bers to transfer to said accumulator the numerical value set upon said selector mechanism; and said control means includes blocking means oper: able to prevent movement of the calculating members cooperating with those columns of value al value originally set upon said selector mechanism when said blocking means was inoperative and to repeat said transfer until the number thereof corresponds to the said subsequently actuated number key. 
 34. A calculating machine as claimed in claim 31, wherein said control means includes means operated upon the actuation of a number key, subsequent to movement of the blocking means to operative'position, for energizing said transfer means to transfer to said accumulator the numeral value originally set upon said selector mechanism when said blocking means was inoperative and to repeat said transfer until the number thereof corresponds to the said subsequently actuated number key, means operative upon the completion of said number of transfers to move said selector mechanism carriage to displace the originally set numerical value to an adjacent denominational order, whereby the subsequent actuation of a number key will effect a transfer of the originally set numerical value to said accumulator a number of times corresponding to the actuated number key and the changed denominational order. 
 35. A calculating machine as claimed in claim 31, wherein said control means includes means operated upon the actuation of a number key, subsequent to a movement of the blocking means to operative position, for energizing said transfer means to transfer to said accumulator the numeral value originally set upon said selector mechanism when said blocking means was inoperative and to repeat said transfer until the number thereof corresponds to the said subsequently actuated number key; in combination with a revolutions counter, normally inoperative means adapted to transfer to said revolutions. 
counter a numerical value corresponding to an actuated number key, and means for rendering said last means operative simultaneously with the movement of said blocking means into operative position. 
ERNST VALFRID GUSTAFSSON. GUSTAF HILARIUS HELLGREN.