Calculating machine 
US-2291154-A
nan
1942-07-28
https://patents.google.com/patent/US2291154A/en
ly 1942- A. J. FETTIG CALCULATING MACHINE Filed Oct. 4, 1938 10 Sheets-Sheet l INVENTOR BY flrf/mr J. 7272'; 
438411 (X31147, M4 m A TTORNE Y6 July 28, 1942. A, J, FETTIG 2,291,154 
CALCULATING MACHINE Filed Oct. 4, '1938 10 Sheets-Sheet 2 INVENTOR A TTORNEY$ July 28, 1942. FETTIG 2,291,154 
CAUCULATING MACHINE Filed Oct. 4, 1938 10 Sheets-Sheet 5 July 28, 1942. 
A. J. FETTIG CALCULATING MACHINE Filed Oct. 4; 1958 10 Sheets-Sheet 4 llllllll 71942. A. J. FETTIG I CALCULATING- MACHINE Filed 001;. 4, 1938 10 Sheets-Sheet 5 INVENTOR BY flrTbarJFeIE A UORNEYS July 28, 1942. 
A. J. FETTIG CALCULATING MACHINE Filed Oct. 4, 1938 10 Sheets-Sheet 6 at i 1N VENTOR A TTORNEYS HUMP] 1 1 JP w Awdhiu ========E=i=================== AMY y 28, 1942- A. J. FETTIG 2,291,154 
CALCULATING MACHINE Filed Oct. 4; 1938 10 Sheets-Sheet l0 0* (m 2m 3%33 0 AU MW b 55% 55% um N% @m 9% w I? II wfl m NW" RN 9% %w W S D Q Q 0 as H m a Mum m M 0 6 Q E 9 G Q wwwwim $5 x @m 9* 6 M i my k k Q a Q l \EE k 0 9 0 U 0 fly a a" was k Q B. U U U U U U Q @RE XRSQQQ M QR mm va 9% an E b. t R w 4 3 S b MN Q\ m 12 @N MEH /l\ I, 
 F b m. v RR Q 5 [F6 Q l\ m. 552w m w W N m w m w w L @253 Patented July 28, 1942' CALCULATING MACHINE Arthur J. Fettig, 
roughs Adding Mac Detroit, Micln, asslgnor to Burhinc Company, Detroit, 
 Mich, a corporation of Michigan Application October 4, 1938, Serial No. 233,280 28 Claims. (01. 197-177) This invention relates to calculating machines and more particularly to calculating machines used by commercial houses for bookkeeping purposes. 
 Machines of this type are provided with traveling carriages and are used for making entries in certain columns on two or more preruled forms as the carriage travels'across the machine. In 
 the usual run of commercial transactions it is desirable to skip difierent columns when the carriage is moving in tabulating direction, and to return the. carriage from different intermediate columnar positions to intermediate positions on the forms. For example in banking work, sometimes deposits are entered without withdrawals, and vice versa, which makes it desirable, in certain instances, to skip tabulate the withdrawal column and, in other instances, to skip tabulate the deposit column. In commercial work it is likewise sometimes desirable to skip the credit column and, at other times, to skip the debit column when making charge or credit runs. Similar instances also occur in public utilityapplications. 
 It has been found in recent years that the columns to be skipped and the positions from which and to which the carriage is to be returned not only vary for dlfierent users in accordance with their accounting forms, but also vary ma- 6 terially for a single user as to forms used. That is, the forms of a single user will differ in accordance with the type of transaction or series of entries being made. Skip tabulation and selective carriage return have been accomplished in the past by providing suitable individual and independent mechanisms for controlling the paper carriage in its tabulating and return movements. 
necessitated designing special and complicated arrangements for each particular installation. 
 Because oi. this and because machines capable of performing this type of work are necessarily complicated and incorporate many different and independent carriage control features they must usually be constructed and assembled specially at the factory to suit each customers order. That is, the set-up of the machine is usually special in each case and the machine must be assembled to suit the particular needs and bookkeeping forms employed by the customer in his particular accounting system. This lack of uniiormity in bookkeeping forms and lack of flexibility oi machines, makes it impossible to stock machines of this character at the agencies. In fact, the'forms of a single customer frequently vary to such an extent that it is impossible for a single installed machine to handle the differ= out forms used. Furthermore it one or more terms are to be discontinued it has been found necessary to return the machine for redesign and to have various-features either omitted or added in order to accommodate the machine to new and widely varyingapplications. 
 This condition obviously complicates matters not only in the manufacture of machines of this kind, but also in theservicing of the machines in the field where a large number of special parts must be ordered to be able to service each special machine. 
 It is thepurpose of the present invention to provide a machine which may be readily adjusted, with a minimum change of parts, to accommodate the machine to widely differing accounting forms. 
 It is an object of this invention to provide a machine incorporating a single unit which will In the Rinsche Patent No. 1,580,534 provision 40 provide the necessary controls of carriage moveis made for skip tabulating the carriage under control of a special key such as an auxiliary motor bar. Provision is also made for returning the carriage from an intermediate column, under control of a special key, than the initial column. In the Muller Patent No. 1,942,216 provision is made for automatically controlling skip tabulation of the carriage by the carriage so that automatic and delayed as well as intermittent skip tabulation is obtained. 
 These mechanisms, however, are not sumciently flexible or adaptable to all the requirements of modern bookkeeping systems and in some instances the individual and independent controls ments and functions both in tabulating and return directions and whereby the machine may easily be adapted to various programs and to widely different forms. 
to some column other Other objects and theirresultant advantages will be apparent from the following description, particularly when considered in connection with the drawings, in which: 
Figure l is a right side elevation of a machine embodyingthe present invention, the parts being illustrated in normal position; 
 Fig. 2 is a perspective view of the carriage control unit comprising the present invention and illustrating the parts thereof in normal poconflicted and interfered with each other. This sition; 
 Fig. 3 is a rear elevation of the carriage control unit, the parts being in normal position: 
 Fig. 4 is a front elevation of the carriage control unit showing both the skip tabulating and carriage return mechanisms in indexed positions for p p ses of illustration although such a condition would not occur in actual machine operation; 
 Fig. 5 is a left side detail elevation of the power means for controlling the carriage control unit: 
 Fig. 6 is a partial rear elevation of the carriage illustrating the controls for adjimting the machine to perform different transactions: 
 Fig. 7 is a partial left side elevation illustrating the control from the total and subtotal keys; 
 Fig. 8 is a detail of one of the indexing elements; 
 Fig. 9 is a large detail of one of the control roll assemblies: 
 Fig. 10 is an enlarged sectional detail taken along line I 0-" of Fig. 6; 
 Fig. 11 is a partial rear elevation illustrating a slightly modified form of control assembly: 
 Fig. 12 is a fragmentary detail illustrating carriage control of the modification: 
 Fig. 13 is a fragmentary detail of the slide operating means; 
' Fig. 14 is an end elevation of a portion of the rear of the machine illustrating mainLv the carriage control mechanisms: 
 Fig. 15 is a diagrammatic illustration of some of the tabulating movements that-the carriage may be caused to take; and 
Fig. 16 illustrates diagrammatically an exam- ;ple of the work to be performed on the machine and also illustrates diagrammatically the-setup of the carriage tabulating and return control members on the carriage for producing the programs of carriage movements required for said example of work. 
 The present invention has been illustrated as applied to a Burroughs high keyboard machine which is well known in the art and illustrated in many patents. In general, the machine is like that disclosed in the Rinsche Patent No. 1,580,534 and has a plurality of banks of amount keys i (Fig. l) which actuate wires 2 for controlling the actuators 3 which, in turn, operate any desired number of registers, such as I and 5, for performing the usual calculating operations. The actuators also control type carriers 9 which contain type ii! for printing upon paper supported by the platen ll mounted in a tilting frame I! supported by the traveling pap r carriage It. The paper carriage tabulates from right to left, when looking at the machine from the front, and is returned from left to right preferably by power means. The machine may be operated by hand although it is preferred to operate the machine electrically by a motor II, as disclosed in the Vincent Patent No. 866,750, which operates through a clutch mechanism It to drive a main shaft II. The machine may also be provided with an automatic repeat print and cycle mechanism as disclosed in the Muller Patents Nos. 1,397,774 and 2,087,542. 
 The invention primarily concerns the control of columnar printing in such a way that the machine may be quickly and easily adjusted to operate upon widely differing accounting i'orms without requiring structural changes in the machine. In the embodiment shown, this is accomplished by controlling the pap r carriage, and use is made of certain of the existing mechanisms associated with the carriage, for which reason the construction. arrangement and operation of the carriage and the means for moving and controlling it will be more particularly described. The calculating mechanisms of the machine are well known and a detailed description of them is not necessary for an understanding of the present invention. 
 As is customary in Burroughs machines of this type, the carriage I3 is mounted for lateral movement across the rear of the machine and is moved in tabulating direction by a drum spring It. Movements of the carriage in tabulating direction are controlled by adjustable stops I! mounted for horizontal adjustment on a rocking stop bar it supported by the carriage. there being a stop for each columnar position of the carriage. The bar is urged counterclockwise (Pig. 1) by means of a spring (not shown) which permits the bar to be rocked clockwise so that the active adiustable stop I! may be released from the fixed stop it. Near the end of the return stroke of the machine the active stop I! is raised above the fixed stop I! to permit the carriage to tabulate to the left until the next stop ll engages the fixed stop II. The active stop II is moved upwards (Fig. 14) by means of a pawl 2| pivoted at its lower end to a reciprocating slide II that is moved downward during the forward stroke and upward during the return stroke of each cycle of operation of the machine. The end of this pawl normally moves under the active stop during the downward movement of the slide 2| so that when the slide II is raised the active stop I1 is also raised. The slide II is reciprocated vertically as stated. by means of a lever 22 that is rocked in each cycle of operation of the machine by a cam 23 connected to the operating mechanism of the machine. For further description of the carriage tabulating mechanism reference is made to the Lundgren Patent No. 1,195,599, Rinsche Patent No. 1,580,534 and the Muller Patent No. 1,942,216. 
 As disclosed in the Rinsche patent. the carriage is provided with a skip tabulating ball 24 (Fig. l) which has or controls a downwardly extending arm 25 which. when released. overlies an arm 2! rigidly secured to and extending rearwardly from the stop bar ll. When the arm II is moved downwardly by the rocking of the stop bar II, the arm II can move forward above the arm 25 if the ball 24 is free for movement downward. This will lock the stop bar II in rocked position and consequently retain the tabulating stops I! out of position for engagement with the fixed stop It. However, the skip tabulating control ball :4 is under control of a control stud 21 (Figs. 1, 2 and 14) which normally holds the ball 24 upward. In the Rinsche Patent No. 1,580,534, said stud can be moved downward under control of a skip tabulating key, and latched down by a latch controlled by the skip release knockers on the carriage. In accordance with the present invention, both the downward movement and the release of the stud 21 are controlled automatically by the carriage. as will be explained later. 
 The machine is provided with the usual carriage normal key II (Fig. l) for disabling the carriage tabulating mechanism. This key is carried by the upper end of a stem 2! connected at 30 to a vertical slide II so as to lower the latter upon depression of the key. The slide II has a rearwardly projecting arm 32 which engages a lever 33 connected to a thrust bar 34 for controlling the tabulating pawl 20 as shown in the Lundgren Patent No. 1,195,599 so as to disable the tabulating mechanism by rocking the pawl about its pivot from beneaththe active stop 11 and preventing the pawl from raising the active stop 11 when the carriage normal key is depressed. 
 The lower end of stem 29 extends rearwardiy and has an arm 85 "which arm, in addition to engaging other devices of the machine, engages a stud 55 (Fig. 1) carried by a lever 81 pivoted at 88. The rearward end of this latter lever 81 carries a stud ,85 which is positioned to engage an arm 45 of a yoke 4| pivoted at 255 and springurged in a counterclockwise direction. Another arm 42 of this yoke carries a stud 42 adapted to engage the awls m and 121' of Fig. 5 or a pawl l2l of Fig. 13 for disabling the skip tabulating and carriage return mechanism as will be described later. In other words, depression of the carriage normal key 28 not only disables the carriage tabulating mechanism but also disables the automatic skip tabulating and carriage return mechanisms to prevent these latter mechanisms from functioning during a machine operation. 
 The carriage I8 is preferably moved in return direction by power means as disclosed in the Rinsche Patent No. 1,580,534. In brief, this mechanism includes a unit at the rear of the machine having a gear 44 (Fig. 2) constantly engaged with a rack 45 (Fig. 6) supported by the paper carriage. A second gear 41 (Figs. 2 and 4) is driven directly by the motor I4 whenever the latter is in motion and is connected to the first gear 44 by a clutch member 48 (76 of Rinsche 1,580,534) having two depending lugs shown) which couple the gears when the clutch "member is moved downwardly. This causes the carriage to be returned from leftto right, as viewed from the front. As the carriage reaches the end of itsv full return movement, the clutch member 48 is moved upwardly to disengage the -two gears 44 and 41, thereby leaving the carriage under control of the tabulating mechanism. The clutch member is controlled by a stud 49 (103 of Rinsclie) projecting from a lever (not vention, as will be described later. For further- I details of the clutch mechanism per s e, reference is made to the Rinsche Patent 1,580,534. 
lNmsxrNo or CARRIAGE TABULATION In the ordinary machine, as an incident to each machine cycle, the carriage automatically moves to its next adjacent columnar position, or it may be caused to skip a certain number of columns and stop at one predetermined column. The new improvement preferably makes use of the mechanisms by which these results are obtained and it is combined with them in such a way that, with the carriage in any one of its columnar positions, the tabulating mechanism may be indexed, either manually, or automatically by the carriage itself, to determine the column to which the carriage will move at the end of the machine cycle. 
 The mechanism of the present invention is in the nature of a compact control unit mounted on r a main supporting plate 51 that is detachably the bail 24 (Fig. 1) is carried by a vertical slide 54 (Fig. 2) which is mounted to slide vertically on two studs 55 attached to the main supporting 'plate 51. The slide 54 is urged upward by a spring 55 (Fig. 4) It will be recalled that, when the stud 21 is lowered, it frees the ball 24 so that, ii the tab shaft 18 carrying the "tab stops I1 is rocked to carriage-releasing position, the arm -25 of bail 24 will hold said shaft in said position until the shaft is released. In the present invention, the stud 21 may be lowered by any one of six control slides 55 (Fig. '2) which are mounted for vertical sliding movement on the stud 55, said slides 58 being urged upward by individual springs 51. Each of the slides 58 has-a slot- (Fig. 2), and extending through these slots is a relatively long stud 59 projecting inward from the slide 54 toward the main plate 51, the arrangement being such that, when any one of the slides 58 is pulled downward, the upper end of its slot will act on the stud to also pull the slide 54 downward. 
 The lower ends of the-six slides terminate in lateral lugs 52- (Fig. 2) which are in position to be selectively engaged by an inturned lug 53v formed on the upper end of a pivoted and slidingly supported index member or selector 54 pivoted at 55 (F18. 4) to a sliding plate 55 (Figs. 3 and 4) mounted for vertical sliding movement on the rear of the main plate 51 by three stud and slot connections 51 (Fig. 3), the plate 51 being cut away to permit the slide 55 to be upon the rear and the selector 54 to be upon the front thereof. The slide 55 is constantly urged upwardly by a spring 58 (Fig. 3) and the selector 41. Automatic indexing-C'arriage tabulation The six slides may be indexed automatically under the control of the carriage so that the carriage itself determines the next column to which it shall move. This is accomplished by moving the selector 54 about its pivot to select one of the six slides by different sized control rolls on the carriage. For this purpose, rolls 15 (Figs. 4, 6 and 14) of the desired sizes are mounted on studs I53 adjustably mounted on a bar 153' (Fig. 14) removably secured to the carriage, so that in the desired columnar positions of the carriage, the rolls 15 will engage an arm 11 (Fig. 4) of a yoke 12 joumaled on a fixed shaft 13. The yoke 12 has a second and upstanding arm 14 which is connected to one end of a link 15, the other end of which is connected to one arm of a bell crank 15 (Fig. 3) pivoted to the outside of the plate 51. The other arm of the bell crank 15 has a forked end which engages a stud 11 (Fig. 2) carried by a short vertical slide 18 (Figs. 2 and 4) mounted for vertical sliding movement upon the inside surface of the plate 51, the latter having a slot through which'stud 11 passes. The vertical slide .18 carries a second stud 19 at its lower end in position to engage one end of a rocker or whipple-tree pivoted intermediate its ends at 8| to the upper end of a vertical slide 52. The other arm of rocker 851s adapted to be engaged by a stud. 88 projecting from another parallel vertical slide 84, for reasons to be describedlater. The rocker carrying slide. 82 extends downwardly and, at its lower end, carries a rack 88 which is in constant mesh with a gear 81 secured to an index plate 88 pivoted at 88 to the main plate 81. Index plate 88 is constantly urged counterclockwise about its pivot by a spring 88d and is provided at its upper edge with a series of steps 88. The upper stepped edge 88 of index plate 88 is engaged, under certain conditions, by a sensing stud 85 projecting from one arm of a bell crank 88 pivoted at 81 to the plate 81. The other arm of this bell crank 88 has a stud and a slot connection 88 with a horizontal slide 88, the inner end of which engages a stud I88 extending from the pivoted selector 84 and limits the counterclockwise movement of the selector under urge of its spring 88. Accordingly, the position of the index plate 88 and the arrangement of its stepped edge 88 determine the position of the selector 84 to cause it to overlie the lateral lug 82 of a selected slide 58, the position of the index plate being determined by the size of the active roll 18 used in the particular columnar position of the carriage. In other words, the sizes of the rolls 18 and the conformation of the index plate determine the tabulating movement or program of tabulation of the carriage and a variation in either or both will vary this program. 
 It is undesirable to permit the stud 85 to engage the upper stepped edge 88 of the index plate 88 until the latter has been positioned. Therefore, provision is made to retain the stud 85 out of engagement with the control plate 88 until the latter has been indexed, after which the stud is permitted to drop into contact with the upper edge of the index plate. 
 For this purpose a bell crank I85 (Figs. 3 and 4) is pivoted to the outside of plate 51 which bell crank has an upper cam end I88 adapted, when in normal position (Fig. 3), to engage and lift stud 85 out of engagement with the upper stepped edge 88 of index plate 88. The lower arm of bell crank I85 is connected by a link I81 to one end of a lever I88 (Figs. 1, 4 and 5) pivoted intermediate its ends at I88 to the machine base and constantly urged clockwise by a spring I I8. The other end of lever I88 carries a stud III which engages a cam II2 mounted on the main clutch shaft I5 which is rotated a single revolution in a clockwise direction (Fig. 5) for each machine operation. The cam II2 has a high portion for about one-half of its periphery and a low portion for the remaining half. The positioning of the cam is such that, after the index plate 88 has been indexed and during the machine operation, the stud III drops of! the high portion of the cam to the low portion causing link I81 to move upward and rock the crank I85 counterclockwise to release stud 85 and permit the latter to engage the index plate 88. Thus, the selector 84 is indexed to a position over a selected slide 58 in accordance with the size of the carriage roll 18. After this, the selector is lowered by means to be described below to lower the selected slide and stud 21 to release the skip tabulating ball 24. 
upwardly by the relatively strong spring 88 (Fig. 3), is provided with an inturned lateral extension I28 (Figs. 3 and 5) at its lower end on which is pivoted apair of pawls I2I and I2I, the latter being spring-urged in a clockwise direction (Fig. 5) and having hooked ends adapted to engage a square stud I22 under certain conditions. The stud I22 is carried on the end of a lever I28 pivoted at I88 to the machine frame and urged clockwise by a spring I24. The rear end of lever I28 is adapted to be engaged by a stud I28 carried by an arm I28 secured to the main clutch shaft I8. Near the end of each revolution of shaft I8 and while the stud 88 is still engaged with the stepped edge 88 of the sector 88. the stud I28 engages and rocks lever I28 counterclockwise to lower the stud I22 carried thereby. Accordingly, if either pawl I2I or I2I is in position to be engaged by stud I22, the pawl and slide 88 will be lowered for a short period, after which the slide and levers will be returned by their springs. 
 Provision is made for permitting pawl I2I to engage stud I22 only when necessary, that is. only after the index plate 88 has been indexed. For this purpose pawl I2I is formed with a laterally extending arm I21 positioned to be engaged by a lever I28 (Figs. 3 and 5) pivoted at I28 to the forward side of plate 51 and having an arm pro- Jecting in position to be engaged by a stud I88 on the index plate 88. The construction is such that, when the index plate is in normal position, stud I88 holds lever I28 in the position of Fig. 3, so that it hold: pawl I2I in the position of Fig. 5 out of possible engagement with the square stud I22. As soon as the index plate 88 is moved, however, lever I28 rocks counterclockwise (Fig. 3), and releases pawl I2I, so that it will engage the square stud, whereby the slide 88 and the selector 84 are lowered to lower the selected one of the six slides 58. This occurs during the latter part of the machine operation and after printing has taken place but while the stud 88 is still in engagement with the stepped edge 88 of the sector 88 and before tabulation of the paper carriage. 
 It is necessary, of course, to retain the selected and lowered slide 88 in its lower position in order that the skip tabulating ball will be lowered for a suflicient length of time. For this purpose, each of the six vertical slides 58 is formed with a notch I (Figs. 2 and 4) along one edge adapted to be engaged by one arm of a latch I 88 pivoted at I81 to a supporting plate 81, the latches being urged clockwise into latching position by springs I88. It will be understood, of course, that there is a notch In each slide and a latch for each slide. 
 From the foregoing it will be apparent that the stepped plate 88 is indexed by the carriage when the latter moves to a predetermined position where the machine is to be given a cycle of operation. During the cycle, the arm I88 is raised so that the selector 84 is released and the latter moves to a position determined by the index plate 88, in which position the selector overlies one of the selected slides 58. After this indexing has occurred, and during the machine cycle, the plate 88 is lowered to lower the selected slide 88, which slide is thereupon latched in position by its latch I88, and the tabulating bail 24 is lowered so that it will latch the "tab" bar I8 in a carriage-releasing position when the bar I8 is rocked to that position to tabulate the carriage. Then the slide 88 and selector 84 are again elevated and the arm I85 is again lowered to rock the selector back to normal. Fig. 4 illusmeans of a detent I82. 
In changing the condition of the three-armed members I50, to change the automatic indexing of the tabulating mechanism, it is often desirable to also vary the eilects of the release disks I40 which determine where the carriage shall be arrested in response to the indexing. In order to accomplish this, the slide I51 is provided with an upstanding arm I85 having a stud projecting therefrom which enters a helical cam- I88 formed in a sleeve I91 secured to the release lug shaft I4I. Accordingly, movement of the slide I51 will not only move the rack I55 and three-armed member I 50, but will also rotate shaft I4I to vary the effectiveness of the release disks I40. The shape of the helical cam and the number and effects of the three-armed members I50 may be varied to suit the demands of the user. 
 It follows from the foregoing that, by manipulating only a single lever I59, the automatic indexing of the tabulating mechanism by the car-' riage may be varied, or the effects of said indexing may be varied, or both the indexing and the effects of indexing may be changed. If the indexing only is to be changed, the parts are arranged so that the movement of lever I59 rotates the three-armed members I50 but not the releasedisks I40. If it is desired to change only the effects of indexing, then the release disks I40 are rotated, while the three-armed members are not. If both are to be varied, then both the three-armed members I50 and the disks I40 are rotated by the lever I59 as above explained. 
It is also relatively easy to change the effects 0. Manual indexing-Carriage tabulation Provision is also made for indexing the tabulating mechanism manually, and under joint manual and carriage control. Several examples have been illustrated as follows: 
1. Motor bar control Referring to Fig. 1, the regular motor bar I is illustrated, which. in a sense, .is an operation control key and which, of course, is the usual means for starting the machine on a cycle of operation. A lower auxiliary motor bar "I is also provided which through a lateral arm causes depression of the regular motor bar in a wellknown manner and, in addition, may also cause a particular type of machine operation and a particular register selection if desired, as is common in this type of machine. 
 The lower motor bar is provided with a laterally projecting stud I12 (Figs. 1 and 7) which engages the lower arm of a bell crank I13 pivoted to the machine frame and urged clockwise by a spring I14. The upper arm of beIl'crank I13 has a stud and slot connection I16 with the forward end of a link I11 urged forwardly by a spring I18. This link extends rearwardly and at its rear end has a stud and slot connection I19 (Fig. l) with the rear end of a lever I8I pivoted at I82 to the machine frame and urged counterclockwise by a spring I83. 
Pivoted on the stud I19 at the end of lever I8I, is an index plate I84 having a series of notches I88 along its lower edge and a stud I81 projecting laterally from one side adapted to be. 
engaged by 9. depending projection I88 formed on the rear end of link I11. The index plate is urged counterclockwise by a spring I89 and is rocked clockwise against the action of spring I89 by link I11 when the lower motor bar is depressed. The index plate I84 is retained in adjusted position by a stud I9I engaging the upper serrated end of the plate I84. This stud is carried on the outer end of one arm of a bell crank I92 pivoted to the machine frame and having a lower end which is engaged by one end of a pawl I98 pivoted at I95 to the lever I8I. 
The pawl I93 is engaged by a stud I91 carried by the full stroke sector I98. The arrangement of the pawl I93 is such that, as the full stroke sector moves counterclockwise at the beginning of a machine cycle, the stud I91 moves away from the pawl I93, allowing the crank I92 to move clockwise under spring tension until its stud I9I engages one of the notches on the upper edge of the index plate, thereby holding this plate in its indexed position during a machine cycle until the full-stroke sector returns to normal near the end of said cycle, after which the stud I91 will again lift the stud I! from the index plate I84 to permit reindexing of the plate. 
During each machine operation the index plate I84 is lowered to such an extent that, if it has been indexed by being rocked about its pivot I19 out ,of normal position, its lower notched end will engage and depress a stud 200 carried by a bell crank 20I pivoted at 203 on the machine frame. For this purpose lever I8I is provided with a lower curved arm 202 also adapted to be engaged by the stud I91of the full stroke sector I98 which is first rocked counterclockwise and then returned clockwise to normal during a machine cycle. As the full-stroke sector rocks counterclockwise at the beginning of a machine cycle, the stud I91 engages the arm 202 and rocks the lever I8I and index plate I84 clockwise, thus moving the index plate I84 into engagement with the stud 200. 
 The rear arm of crank 20I has a stud and fork connection 204 with an arm 205 secured to shaft 206, which latter shaft extends across the rear of the machine and to which is secured an arm 208 for controlling the tabulating mechanism. Arm 208 is connected to a link 209, most readily seen in Fig. 4, which link is formed at its upper end with a laterally extending lug 2I0 (Fig. 4) overlying the stud 83 on the vertical slide 84. This stud, as previously explained, overlies one arm of the rocker carried by the vertical rocker slide 82, which controls the position of'the index plate 88. Accordingly, depression of the lower motor bar and the resulting machine operation control the carriage tabulating movement by lowering the rocker 80 and its associated slide a predetermined distance, depending upon the particular notch I86 in plate I84 which engages the stud 200 in crank 20I. the motor bar may be varied by changing the notches I86 in the lower edge of plate I84. 
 It will be understood that, if a control roll 10 or a three-armed member I50 is already engaged with the skip lever 1I, slide 82 and index plate The effect of release is accomplished by release disks 3, 6, 9, and adiustablyv secured on shaft Ill of the traveling pew carriage by Ill (Fig. 10). These disks are arselectively engage the upper arms of thelatches lfltoreleasetheslide ll thatmay have been set, to thereby release the tab" bar and allow the next "tab" stop I] to arrest the carriage. 
 As previously explained, there are six slides I. and six latches I" arranged ina group transversely of the direction of movement of the carriage. The upper ends of the latches I appear as a group mm. 10. In order that the disks I may selectively engage these latches, the disks are cut out or slotted as indicated so as to pass one or more of the latches. One of these disks I can be located in each columnar position of the carriage. Each disk can be cut out in a manner to pass all but a selected latch or latches. This allows a wide variety of tabulating movements to be obtained, of which the following are examples. 
 Assume that operations start with the carriage in column 1 where a small-sized control roll III indexed the mechanism so that, during a machine cycle, a slide I. corresponding to the size of the roll is set and latched by its latch I. Assume, also, that the disks I in columns 2, 3 and 4 are cut out so that they will not trip the latch ill for the slide I that has been set but that the disk I in the fifth column will trip the latch. The result is that the carriage will move through columns 2, 3 and 4 and stop in column 5. 
 Next, assume another transaction in 'which operations start in column 2, where a larger control roll sets a diiierent slide 58 which is latched by its latch I36. Assume, also, that the disks Ill in columns 3, 4 and 5 are slotted so that they will not release the latch III for the second slide ll. The result is that the carriage will move from column 2 to column 6 without being affected in any way by the disk I in column 5 which previously stopped the carriage in said column. It will be clear that the disk I for releasing the last-mentioned latch It could be located in the fourth column and it would not interfere with the movement of the carriage to the fifth column in the first example. In fact, these release disks I can be located in any columnar position desired and each can control the arrest of the carriage without regard to the others when each controls only an individual one of the latches I. 
 As so far described, the regular tabulatin movements of the carriage are controlled by the usual tabulating mechanism in the usual way, and this is the preferred construction. However, it should be understood that the regular tabulating movements of the carriagc'can also be controlled by the improved mechanism heretofore described for skip tabulation. In that event, one of the index slides II is to regular carriage tabulation. The carriage would then have a roll II in every carriage position for setin every column. In the event it is desired to skip columns, a diiferent slide is set up and later tripped out after the desired tcfore explained. when the mechanism is used in this way. the number of skips available is, of course, reduced because one set of devices is used for regular carriage tabulation. 
 The term tabulating mechanism." as used herein, is intended to refer to the mechanism for controlling the movements of the carriage in what is ordinarily known as tabulating direction, irrespective of the type of power used to move the carriage. 
Thus, it will be clear that, in any given columnar position of the carriage, the carriage itself automatically indexes the tabulating mechanism to determine the next position to which I the carriage shall move at the end of the machine cycle. It may move to the next adjacent col umn, or it may move to any one of the positions remaining in the tabulating direction if there are suillcient numbers oi slides I and disks I. This indexing may occur in any column and in each and every column. The position to which the carriage moves after being indexed in different columns depends upon the location oi the release disks that trip the latches for the slides. and it is evident that a wide variation can be obtained. 
b. Program devices for varying the eflcct of indexing carriage tabulation The indexing, when automatically controlled by the carriage, is governed by the control rolls such as the rolls 10 on the carriage. The column to which the carriage will move in accordance with the indexing oi the tabulating mechanism is governed by release disks such as the disks I on the shaft or bar Ill. In other words, there is a program means for'indexing the tabulating mechanism automatically and a program means for determining the eifect oi this indexing. Provision is made for very quickly changing the condition oi either or both oi these program means to thus vary the automatic indexing as well as the effect of said indexing. 
 Referring to Figs. 6 and 9, instead of using rolls II for automatically indexing the tabulating mechanism, multiple-arm members such as the three-:arm members I" are provided in the desired columnar position of the carriage. These members I" have three arms of diflerent lengths, each of which terminates in a grooved end l5l adapted to engage the skip control lever II to rock it varying degrees depending upon the size of the active arm. These three-armed members are illustrated as being utilized in only one of the columnar positions oi the carriage (Fig. 6), although it is obvious that they may be utilized in any or all of the possible carriage positions, as may be desired. The three-armed member is secured to a sleeve ll! (Fig. 9) rotatably carried by a stud In (Figs. 6 and 9) adjustably secured on the bar I63 removably secured to the carriage memos If. after this, the lower motor bar is depressed and the link 288 is lowered, the slide 82 will be lowered a greater distance, thereby indexing plate 88 to a diflerent positionthan the roll II alone would cause it to take. On the other hand, if 
indexing movement of the index plate I84 and also index plate 88. 
Depression of either total key causes a movement of index plate 88 which is in addition to there Is no roll 18 active in the particular columnar position of the carriage in which the lower motor bar is depressed, the control plate 88 will be indexed in accordance with the effective lower notch I88 on plate I84. The plate I84 may be provided with notches of the desired depth to cause the machine to provide any particular indexing desired from the auxiliary motor bar. I 
 The illustrated machine also has an upper motor bar 2I8 (Fig. l), the depression of which also affects the tabulating movement of the carriage.- 
The upper motor bar carries a stud 2l8 which, when the bar is depressed, directly engages an upper arm 2|! (Figs. 1 and 8) of the index plate I84 and rocks it clockwise in a manner similar to the lower motor bar, except that the degree of movement of the index plate is different from that occasioned bydepression of the lower auxiliary motor bar. In other words, a different notch I88 in the lower edge of the index plate I84 is positioned for engagement with stud 20% on crank 2! when each of the two auxiliary motor b'ars is depressed. In other respects the operation is the same as that described in connection with the lower auxiliary motor bar I1 I. 
 Thus, the auxiliary motor bars, through the index plates 88 and I84, both of which are alterable, provide a manual means for indexing the tabulating movements of the carriage either alone 'or jointly with the carriage to control the se: 
quence or program of movements of the carriage and thereby the program of operations of the machine. 
' 2. Total key control Provision is a1so.made for indexing the tabulating mechanism manually by means of the total this is best shown in Fig. '7. 
- The total key T (Fig. 7) is carried by a crank 220 which it rocks counterclockwise upon key de= pression. Crank 228 is connected by a link 225 to an arm 222 fastened to shaft 228. Also secured to shaft 223 is a second arm 224 having a stud 225 in a position to engage the rearwardly projecting arm of bell crank I13. Accordingly, upon depression of the total key, the bell crank I73 is rocked in the same manner as it is rocked by depression of the lower auxiliary motor bar, except that the degree of movement is different from that imparted by depression of the lower auxiliary motor bar. Therefore, depression of the total key T causes an indexing of the index plate 84 which, in turn, causes a predetermined indexing of the index plate 88 and controls the tabulatmg movement of thepaper carriage. 
3. Subtotal key control The subtotal key ST (Fig. 7) is another manual means for indexing the tabulating mechanism. 
key. Therefore, depression of the subtotal key also actuates link HI and crank I18, causing an any movement of plate 88 caused by a roll III on the carriage and the tabulating movement of the carriage is controlled in accordance with the total movement of the plate 88. Depending upon the particular form of the plate 88 and of the plate I84 being used. the tabulating movement of the carriage in a machine cycle following depression of either total key or auxiliary motor bar III or 2I5 may be different if a carriage control roll I8 is active at the time the total key or auxiliary motor bar is depressed than it would be if no carriage control roll is active at the time the total key or auxiliary motor bar is depressed. 
 From the foregoing it can be seen that the program of tabulating movements of the carriage can be varied by means of the lever I59 to give the operator of the machine a choice of as many programs of carriage tabulating movements as there are positions for th lever I59 (there being provision for three positions of said lever and thus three programs which can be made effective by means of this lever in the illustrated embodiment) and that further variations of the program of tabulating movement of the carriage are obtainable by the operator by means of thetemporary change from the use of one columnar form to the use of a different columnar form or work sheet. Depression of one of the auxiliary motor bars or the total key or subtotal key can be utilized to cause a change in the carriage tabulation which will be effective for the carriage movement which occurs at the end of the machine operation following the depression of said motor bar or key but may or may not affect subsequent carriage tabulating movements during the completion. of the same, line of entries, depending upon whether the carriage merely skips a columnar position in which, but for the depression of said motor bar or key, the carriage would otherwise have stopped, or whether the carriage stops in some columnar position in which it otherwise would not have stopped and in which the carriage may automatically set the tabulation controls in some different manner. This provides an extremely flexibly variable and extremely versatile and adaptable control of the carriage tabulating movements. 
lunsxmo THE Gammon RETURN In. order to further increase the adaptability of the machine to various bookkeeping forms, selective control of carriage return movements to and from various columnar positions is provided. As in the case of tabulating control, the carriage return controls are susceptible of being changed very readily to vary the sequence or program of carriage movements. 
 As previously described, the carriage is returned by power and controlled through a clutch element 48 in a manner similar to the disclosure in the Rinsche Patent No. 1,580,534. The member 48 is, in turn, controlled by a lever 50 under control of another lever 52. When the lever 52 (Fig. 2) is rocked counterclockwise, that is, when its forward end is lowered, the gears 44 and 41 are engaged and the power carriage return mechanism is operative to return the carriage from left to right as the machine is viewed from the front. 
In order that the clutch may be selectively controlled, the forward end of the lever 22 is provided with a stud 240 which projects through the slots 24I of six slides 242 mounted for vertical sliding movement upon the plate 21 by studs 242. The slides are normally urged upwardly by springs 244, there being a separate spring for each slide. The, arrangement is such that, when any slide is lowered. the lever" is rocked counte -clockwise and the clutch 42 is moved to connect the power carriage return mechanism. Each of the slides 242 is formed at its lower end with a laterally projecting lug 24. adapted to be selectively engaged by the upper intumed lug 241 (Figs. 3 and 4) of an index member or selector 248 pivoted to the slide it at 24! and normally urged clockwise by a spring 252. In other words, the selector 242 is similar to selector 64 and is mounted upon the same plate for vertical sliding movement for lowering the selected slide 242 after the selector has been indexed. 
0. Automatic indexing-carriage return The selector 242 is automatically indexed in a manner similar'to the selector '4, that is, by means of carriage rolls 2" (Figs. 1 and 14) or by three-armed members 25I (Fig. 9) mounted on the carriage studs I52 alongside of rolls 1!! or members I". The tl u'ee-armed members 2H have secured thereto gears I84 (Fig. 6) which mesh with rack Ill for adjustment thereby to selectively index the selector 248 to engage a slide 242 as described in connection with selector 84. The rolls 2" engage the carriage return arm 25! (Figs. 4 and 14) of the yoke 256 which has a second arm 251 connected by a link 252 to a bell crank 25! pivoted at 280 to plate 51. The other armof bell crank 25. (Figs. 3 and 4) has a stud and fork connection 262, with a vertical slide 262, which slide carries a stud 264 adapted to engage one arm of a rocker 2 pivoted at its center to the upper end of a rocker slide 261. This latter slide is mounted for vertical sliding movement upon plate 51 and carries a rack 262 upon its lower end which meshes with 'gear 269 secured to an index plate 210 having a stepped upper edge 2. The index plate 210 is pivoted at 212 and is constantly urged clockwise as shown in Fig. 4, or counterclockwise as shown in Fig. 3 by a spring 212. The plate 21I is therefore positioned or indexed in accordance with the size of the active roll 250 or arm of member 25I to cause a selection of one of the slides 242 as follows: 
 The upper stepped edge 21I of the index plate 210 is engaged at the proper time by a stud 21! carried upon one end of crank 216 pivoted at 211 to the main supporting plate 51. The upper end of crank 218 has a stud and slot connection 212 with a horizontal slide 219 which engages a stud "I carried by the selector 248 and thereby limits the movement (Fig. 4) of the selector 248 which tends to move in a clockwise direction under the urge of its spring 252. Therefore, the selector 242 is indexed by the index plate 210 which, in turn, is positioned in accordance with the carriage roll 25!! to cause the selector 242 to overlie a selected one of the slides 242. 
 As in the case of the selector 64, it is not desirable to permit stud 215 to drag across the upper stepped surface 2" of the index plate 212. Therefore. a crank 224 is pivoted at 212 andformedwithanuppercamend 228 forraising the-stud 214 out of engagement with the index.plate 214, as was described in connection withthecrank Ill. Thecranklflhasalower armconnectedtothelinklllandistherefore actuated simultaneously with the crank Ill In the same timed relation so that stud 212 is lowered Intocontact with the index plate 212 during the latter part of the machine operation and after the plate 214 has been indexed. 
 Following indexing of'the selector 242. It is lowered simultaneously with the selector 04, both being attached to plate 20, and therefore lowers the selected slide 242 to actuate the clutch control lever 4i and cause operation of the carriage return mechanism. 
 As previously explained, the slide 66 is only lowered when the stepped sector 24 is displaced from normal position by a control roll 10 or a three-armed member IE4 or by depression of an auxiliary motor bar or the total or subtotal key. This was accomplished through the provision of pawl I21, lever I22 and a stud I". In some instances it is. desired to actuate the carriage return mechanism when the skip tabulating mechanism is ineffective. For this purpose the second pawl I2I' is utilized and caused to engage the square stud I22 under certain conditions. This second pawl I2I' has a lateral extension I21 adapted to be engaged by one end of a lever 224 which is controlled by a stud "I so as to retain the pawl inactive, that is, out of engagement with square stud I22 whenever the index plate In is in normal ,position. Whenever the index plate 21' leaves its normal position, the pawl I2I' is released to engage stud I22 so that the slide it is lowered independently of any movement of the skip tabulating mechanism. 
 The selected slide 242 having been lowered by the selector 242, it must be retained in lowered position. For this purpose latches 295 are pivotd on stud 228 and urged clockwise (Figs. 2 and 4) into engagement with shoulders 221 by the same springs I28 which urge latches I24 into operative position. It will be understood that there is a separate latch fllfor each slide 242 in order that the latches may be released selectively and individually. The lower ends of the latches are notched to receive arms III of balls 299 secured to shaft 2" and having grouped arms "I arranged closely adjacent each other transversely of the carriage and in position to be engaged by release rolls "2 (Figs. 1. 6 and 14) mounted on the carriage studs III for releasing the latches and stopping the carriage return movement. The release rolls 202 are not notched like the disks I42 for controlling the tabulating mechanism because, in the case of the rolls 202, they are mounted parallel to the direction of movement of the carriage and, hence, the roll for any one arm "I will not interfere with the rolls for the other arms of the series. If there is to be a permanent set-up for the release of all latches six release rolls 2 will be fixed to the carriage in the desired columnar lector 255. For convenience in adjustment the arms carry gears I54 which mesh with the rack I55 so that the arms may be simultaneously adiusted with the disks I40 and the other threearmed members I50, by movement of the manual lever I50. 
 From the foregoing it will be seen that in any of its columnar positions, the paper carriage may index the carriage return mechanism to return the carriage to any one of a wide variety of positions. Or, in other words, the carriage itself indexes, or governs, the position to which it shall be returned. 
b. Program devices for varying the eflect of in-' dexina carriage return As previously explained, the carriage return mechanism may be indexed by the rolls 250 or members 25l mounted on the carriage frame and adjustable by gears I54 that mesh with the rack I55 which is manually movable and likewise the members 303 may also be adjusted by rack I55. In the embodiment illustrated, the same rack is employed that is moved by the lever I53, Thus, the position of the rolls 250 or members 25l and the members 303 may be changed at the same time that the rolls for the tabulating mechanism are varied.- A separate rack and hand lever for the rolls 250 or members 25l and/or the members 303 may be used, if desired. 
 Thus, the program of carriage return, or the effect of indexing said return mechanism, can be quickly changed; and this may be done simultaneously with the change in the program for carriage tabulation. 
0. Manual indexinocarriage return Provision is made for indexing the carriage return mechanism by the auxiliary motor bars and the total and subtotal keys heretofore mentioned. 
 It will be recalled that the indexing of the tabulating mechanism from the auxiliary motor bars and the total and subtotal keys was accomplished by rocking the shaft 206, which, in turn, rocks the arm 208. An arm 350 (Fig. l) also secured to the shaft 206, is connected to a vertical link 35L Link 35I has a laterally projecting lug 352 (Fig. 4) which overlies a stud 353 carried by a vertical slide 354' and adapted to engage the. other arm of rocker 266. Accordingly, depression of either of the auxiliary motor bars or either oi the total keys causes a depression of stud 353 and a lowering of rocker 256 and slide 261, thus causing an indexing movement of the index plate 2m in the same manner as explained in connection with plate 88 and which movement is in addition to or independent of any movement imparted to this plate 210 by reason of rolls 250. The oper ation in this connection is the same as that described in connection with the tabulating mechanism and need not be repeated in detail. 
Immxmc 'rnnGAsaiAoE MOVING MEANS 1'0 Sanso- TIVELY Movn THE CARRIAGE 'ro DIFFERENT Pos1- TIONS IN EITHER DIRECTION slides 58 are used for regular carriage tabulation, the carriage will move in tabulating direction during the latter part of a machine cycle initiated by depression of regular motor bar unless, of course, th carriage-normal key is depressed. During each machine cycle in which either the tabulating index plate 88 or the carriage return index plate 210 is indexed, either an indexed slide 58 for carriage tabulation or an indexed slide 242 for carriage return is pulled down, and if a slide for each has been indexed, both slides 58 and 242 will be pulled down and remain down until released because the same slide 66 is utilized for lowering the slides 58 and 242. This movement occurs after the printing mechanism has operated. The tabulating mechanism releases the carriage and the pulling down of the slide 58 for the tabulating mechanism conditions the mechanism to allow the carriage to continue its travel until the slide is released. The pulling down of the carriage return slide 242 conditions the carriage return mechanism for operation. Even though the tabulating mechanism is conditioned to allow the carriage to move in tabulating direction, nevertheless, the carriage return would normally take hold and move the carriage in the return direction. But, since the indexed tabulating control slide is also latched down the carriage will not be held in the position to which it is returned but, after the set return slide 242 is released, the carriage will move in the tabulating direction to the position where the set tabulating slide 52 is released by a disk I40. 
 Each of the special motor bars and the total and subtotal keys, as well as the carriage, indexes both index plates 88 and 210 simultaneously and it follows that when the means for moving the carriage is indexed by any of the indexing controls, index slides 58 and 242 for both of such movements will be pulled down during a machine cycle. 
 One method of avoiding this diiiiculty is to omit certain of the slides, either for the tabulation or carriage return. For example, if the tabulating mechanism is indexed by an auxiliary motor bar in a certain position of the carriage, the carriage return slide normally indexed by said motor bar in said carriage position is omitted. Accordingly, as the machine is operated upon depression of said motor bar in said carriage position, no carriage return operation will take place because no slide is moved to set the carriage return into operation. Likewise, one or more of the tabulating slides can be omitted when a carriage return operation is desired from a certain carriage position in order that said slide will not. be set to interfere with carriage movements. While this difiiculty can be avoided by leaving out the appropriate slides as just mentioned, the services of a mechanic are required and it reduces the capacity of the ma chine. A much better solution has been provided in the construction illustrated in Figs. 11 and 12, which makes the indexing of the tabulating and the return mechanisms mutually exclusive. In describing this construction, the same reference characters will beused on the parts that are the same and the same reference characters with the suflix a" will be employed on corresponding parts that have been changed only slightly from those shown in prior figures. 
 A tabulating index plate 88 is employed which is similar to the plate "With the exception that mechanism is indexed, and that none of the 210 having eight steps 21I' is employed. The. first six steps on each of these plates are the same as the steps 90 and 210 heretofore described. Since only six sets of index slides are provided, the height of the two additional steps on each of the plates must be the same height as some of the preceding six steps if they are to effect selection of slides. The additional steps, however, provide for a greater range of selection, because of the joint control of indexing by the carriage and the manual control which differs from the sole control by either. For example, assume that the carriage indexes one of the index plates to its No. 3 position. Also, assume that, if one of the auxiliary motor bars is depressed, it would, acting by itself, move the index plate to its No. 4 position. If, after the carriage has indexed the plate to its No. 3 position, the auxiliary motor bar is depressed, the plate will be moved four steps further which carries it to its No. 7 position. The No. 7 step on index plate 88 in Fig. 11 is the same height as the No. 5 step. Accordingly, the joint control by the carriage and one of the motor bars indexes the plate in its No. 5 position, which is different from the indexing caused by either the carriage or the motor bar when used alone. 
 As heretofore described, both the tabulating and the carriage return mechanisms may be indexed at the same time, no matter whether the indexing occurs automatically under the control 01 the carriage, or on the depression of one of the auxiliary motor bars, or the total keys. Since the carriage tabulation and the carriage return should not operate simultaneously, and since it may not be desirable to remove one or more of the slides 58 or 242, provision has been made for making the selection of the tabulating and return mechanisms mutually exclusive. 
 This is accomplished by an auxiliary index plate 400 (Figs. 11 and 12) pivoted at 09"- and associated with index plate 80 of the tabulating mechanism and an auxiliary index plate 40I pivoted at 212' and associated with the index plate 210. The two plates are interconnected for simultaneous operation by a connecting link 402 pivotally connected to plate 88' at 403 and to plate 210 at 404. Link 402 is provided with a projecting arm 400 which extends beyond the pivotal point 212' and which carries a stud 401 to which one end of a tension spring 400 is attached, the other end being connected to pivot 212*, whereby the spring urges both auxiliary index plates 400 and 40I clockwise until the arm 406 limits against the pivot 212'. 
 The auxiliary index plates 400 and 40I control studs and 4, respectively, carried by extensions of cranks 86 and 216 which also carry the sensing studs 95 and 215-, respectively, and retain either or both of the sensing studs inoperative when the plates are in certain positions. The auxiliary index plates 400 and 40I are also provided with slots M2 and H3, respectively, of sufllcient width to permit the entry of studs 0 and H I, thereby enabling or permitting the studs 95' and 215 to engage the index plates 08' and I 210' when the auxiliary index plates are properly positioned. 
 The auxiliary index plate 400 is provided with an arm 4 carrying a stud which engages the forked end of a lever 4|. connected to one end of a link 4II, the other end of which is connected to one arm of a bail 4I8 having a second cam arm 4|! positioned to be engaged by an independent set of various sized control rolls 420 arranged on the carriage. The arrangement is such that with the plates 400 and 40I, in normal position, both sensing studs are prevented from moving downward. that is, both studs 05 and 215' are disabled. Ii. a small sized roll 420 is utilized in any desired columnar position of the carriage, both plates 400 and 40I are rocked clockwise a slight distance, in which position the stud 4 drops into a notch 4|! thus enabling the sensing stud 215 and the carriage return mechanism. In this position, the stud 0 does not overlie a notch M2 and, accordingly, the tabulating mechanism is disabled. If a larger control roll 420 is engaged in any columnar position of the carriage, both plates 400 and I are rocked clockwise a further distance to a position where stud 4 does not overlie a notch in plate I, but stud 4I0 does overlie a notch 2 in plate 400. This will permit the indexing of the tabulating mechanism but will prevent or disable indexing of the carriage return mechanism. 
 The stud 4I5 (Fig. 12), by means of which the plates 400 and 40I are moved, may be controlled manually from one of the auxiliary motor bars, or by the total or subtotal keys, by means of a link 430 shown in Fig. 12 which is connected by a suitable linkage to the appropriate bar or key. 
 The slide 66 is preferably lowered during each machine cycle except while the carriage normal key 20 is down; and, for this purpose, only one pawl I2I is used instead of the two pawls I2I and I2 I employed in the first described construction. The pawl I2I is urged counterclockwise (Fig. 13) into engagement with the square stud I22. Since the slide 60 is lowered during each machine cycle except when the carriage normal key is down, the studs I30 and 20I as well as the levers I20 and 280 are omitted. 
 Assuming that the carriage is in a position where the tabulating mechanism is indexed, when the machine is given a cycle the slide 00 is lowered after the printing mechanism has 0perated. This pulls down the appropriate tabulating slide 50, but no slide 242 for the carriage return mechanism is pulled down because the selecting arm 240 is in its unindexed position where, as it moves downward with slides 66, it will not engage any of the slides 242. Accordingly, the carriage return mechanism will not be operated. Likewise, when the machine is indexed for carriage return, no slide for the tabulating mechanism will be pulled down. In the event that one oi. the motor bars or total keys is depressed, it may index either the tabulating or the carriage return mechanisms to the exclusion of the other because of the plates 400-and "I under control of stud 4II controlled by carriage or other mechanism. This indexing by the motor bar or total key may be a sole control, or it may be a joint carriage and manual control, in which event, the motor bar, or total or subtotal keys, will change the indexing of the plates 400 and I as called for by the carriage position. 
 Thus, the means for moving the carriage may be indexedto move the carriage in either direction and to arrest the carriage in any one of three or more positions in the selected direction. The indexing may be automatic under the control of the carriage or manual under the control of one of the motor bars or total keys, or it may be a Joint control by both the carriage and one of the motor bars or total keys.