Bookkeeping machine 
US-2277250-A
nan
1942-03-24
https://patents.google.com/patent/US2277250A/en
March 24, 1942. E, v NYBERG BOOKKEEPING MACHINE Filed Nov. 30, 1957 9 Shr.=.e'f.s-SheerI 1 March 24, 1942. E. v. NYBl-:RG 
BOOKKEEPING MACHINE Filed Nov. 3Q, 1937 9 Sheets-Sheet 2 OOOGOOOGQ GOOOOOOOG OGOOGOOOO @C @m @o OG OG www@ March 24, 1942. E. v. NYBl-:RG 
BOOKKEEPING MACHINE Filed Nov. 50, 1957 9 Sheets-Sheet 5 uw. ux Ol QF March 24, 1942. 
 E. VQNYBE'RG BOOKKEEPING MACHINE Filed NOV. 30, 1957 9 SheetS--SheeI 4 March 24, 1942. Efv. NYBERG BOOKKEEPING MACHINE Filed Nov. 30, 193'? 9 Sheets-Sheet 5 www@ March 24, 1942. E. V. NYBERG BOOKKEEPING MACHINE Filed NOV. 30, 1937 9 Sheets-Sheet 6 March 24, 1942. E v, NYBERG 2,277,250 
BOOKKEEPING MACHINE Filed NOV. 30, 1937 9 Sheets-Sheet 7 March 24, 1942. E V, NYBERG' 2,277,250 
BOOKKEEPING MACHINE Filed Nov. 30, 1937 9 Sheets-Sheet 8 March 24, 1942. E. V.-NYBERG BOOKKEEPING MACHINE Filed NOV. 50, 1957 9 Sheets-Sheet lPatented Mar. 24, 1942 BOOKKEEPING MACHINE Stockholm, Sweden, as- 
Ernst Vilhelm Nyberz, 
' sig-nor; by mesne lster In New York Application 7 Claims. This application is a continuation-in-part of application Serial No. 368,144 filed June 3, 1929, 
and of a prior continuation-impart of said application, Serial No. 36,030 filed August 13. 1935, and, as to common subject matter, relates back to said applications Serial Nos. 368,144 and 36,030 
for all dates and rights vincident to the filing thereof and the filing of foreign applications vcerrespondiing thereto. 
 This invention refers to book-keeping and accounting machines and the like and involves a new principle of e'ecting the control of balancing totalizers by their operating means. 'I'he invention has for its principal object the provision of a machine for maintaining an account of a pluralityof related factors. For this c., New York, N. 
November 30, 1937, Serial In Sweden June 7, 1928 ents, to Ekonomireg- Y., a corporation of purpose the machine comprises a plurality bf' adding and subtracting totalizers and operating means loperable both to select rality of said totalizers for actuation and simultanedusly to select the sense in which 'each of said totalizers shall be actuated. 
 Another object of the invention is to provide a machine of the kind described comprising means for setting the totalizers way that the totalizers which in a certain case are to be combined for some purpose in one and the same operation of the machine, are directed, ln all respects, from one single operating means covering the whole operation, so that, for each cycle of the machine, one operating means only has to be manipulated once, besides the depressing of the numeral keys.` 
Another object of the present invention in itsl preferred embodiment is more particularly to provide a machine for financial control, bookbalancing and book-keeping, based on an improved accounting method. 
 According to this method every commercial enterprise or business activity mustcomprise, financially, four fundamental factors, viz. assets, liabilities, profits and losses. 'Ihe different classes, into-which the/ assets are divided, e. g. cash, stock, sundry debtors, etc. as well as the different classes of liabilities, profits and losses will be called special factors. 1 
 Business activity consists of a series of individual transactions which in fact always involve changes in the amounts of the said factors of the enterprise. implies a simultaneous change (increase or decrease) of the same size in the amounts of two special factors, a fact which in the double entry book-keeping appears in such a way that every debit entry has its corresponding credit entry, 
further a plufor actuation in such The individual transaction always and vice versa. With logical necessity these changes in two special factors cannot occur in more than the eight following ways. (Designations 'used: T for assets, S for liabilities, V for profits, F for losses.) f 
 l. A kind of loss increases (F+) whilst at the same time a kind of assets decreases (T); 2. A kind of loss increases (F+), whilst at the same time a kind of liabilities increases (S+): 
 3. A kind of assets increases (T-l-), Whilst at the same time a kind of profit increases (V+) 4. A kind of liabilities decreases (S), whilst at the same `time a kind oi prent increases (V+) 5. A kind of assets increases (T+), whilst at the same time another kind of assets decreases (T-) 6. A kind of assets increasesiT-l-l, whilst at the same time a kind of liabilities increases (S+): 
7. A kind of liabilities decreases` (S), whilstv at the same time increases (S+) s 8. A kind of liabilities decreases (S1), whilst at the same time 'a (T-); 
 The above outlined method involves (l) the analysis of the transaction to be recorded, according to one of the store-mentioned eight combinations of the four fundamental accounts: assets, liabilities, profits and losses; (2) and also another kind of liabilities the recording of the transaction in question simultaneously four times, viz. in the debit of one account, in the credit of another account, on the voucher and in the day-list. To carry out this method the machine according to the invention is provided in this particular case with a plurality of totalizers operable 'for addition and subtraction, inter alia corresponding to the fundamental factors: assets, liabilities, profits and losses, and further provided with operating means to set in operative position simultaneously, in the right sense, those two of said totalizers that, according to the analysis, are to be affected by the business transaction to be recorded. Further the machine must be so constructed that in one single operation it immediately shows in totalizers the amount of the net profit or net loss and also the amounts of the assets, liabilities, profits and losses and the total sum of the amounts of the transactions registered. 
 Anotherobject of the present invention is to provide a machine, the functioning of which is based on aforesaid method, by means of which machine the number of the economic analysis of the voucher according to said method, the date, 
kind of assets decreases the controlling number and the amount of the voucher and other items can be printed simultaneously a, plurality of times, for instance in the debit of one account, in the credit of another account, on the voucher and in the journal-list, thus permitting a direct book-keeping up to 100%. 
 Another object ofthe present invention is to provide a machine ofthe kind described, in which the said operating means for simultaneously setting the totalizers into working position, consists of one or more so-called analysing keys. Ii only one analysing key is used, said key should be adapted to be set in different positions so as to both select a plurality of totalizers for actuation and, simultaneously, select the sense, in which each of the totalizers thus selected shall be actuated. Preferably, however, the number of analysing keys is equal to the number of totalizer combinations, i. e. for the embodiment shown as many as the classes of transactions, i. e. eight. It is further possible that the said operating means consists oi electromagnets instead of keys, and perforated cards and brushes may also be utilized as operating means, in which either the cards or the brushes are movable re1- ative to the other members. 
 The machine may be provided with one or more adding totalizers, one oi which, the so-called chronological total amount totalizer, indicates the sum of all items recorded. Further the machine may be provided with a printing device printing automatically, that is to say'without the medium of any key,-the number of the litems in chronological order which, of course, facilitates the control. 
 Further the machine may be provided with operating means to restore the machine in any desired position. if an item has been erroneously recorded and printed the totalizers can by the said operating means be restored to the positions which they assumed, before the erroneous item was set up and printed. This restoring means may consist of a single key, especially when the analysing means consist of one key only, but, preferably, it comprises a row of keys adapted to set the totalizers to carry out the calculation in opposite sense to that for which the corresponding analysing keys would set said totalizer. 
 The present invention will now be described in detail with reference to the accompanying Fig. 8 is a section on the line VIII- VIII in F18. '1. 
 Fig. 9 is a similar section through a pair of cooperating analysing and restoring keys. 
 Fig. l0 illustrates the control of the totalizers from the key-board and from the main driving shaft. 
A Fig. 11 is a perspective view of the connections ot analysing keys with members controlling the totalizers. 
' Fig. 12 is a detail lateral view of a listing key and the locking means controlled thereby. 
 Fig. 13 is a section along the line XIII-XIII in Fig. 12 showing the key rows E, F, G and H. 
 Fig. 14 is a detail View of the hammer mechanism of one of the printing devices. 
 Fig. 15 illustrates a ten transfer mechanism of another type. 
 Figs. 16, 17 and 18 are views of a ten transfer mechanism of still another type. 
 Fig. 19 is a lateral view, partly in section, of a modification of the analysing device in which one key means only is utilized. 
 Fig. 20 is an end view, partly in section, oi the device shown in Fig. 18 along the line XX-XIL Fig. 21 is a plan View of the same. 
 Fig. 22 is a lateral view of still a further modirication of the analysing device in which electromagnets are employed. 
 Fig. 23 is an end View, partly in section, of the device shown in Fig. 22 together with details for energizing the electromagnets, showing a top pian yiew of a portion of the means along the line Xml-m1 of Fig. 22. 
 Fig. 24 is a lateral view, partly in section and partly broken away, of the key means of Fig. 23. 
First the principle oi my new accounting method will be described in one example with drawings which show a preferred embodiment of a machine according to the invention. 
In the drawings: 
 Fig. l illustrates diagrammatically the principle of an improved accounting method. 
 Fig. 2 is a plan view of the machine in one oi its preferred embodiments, various details heing omitted for the sake of clearness. 
 Fig. 3 is a lateral view of one section of said machine. y 
 Fig. 4 is a lateralview on an enlarged scale of the upper right-hand totalizer with appurtenant transmission gears as shown in Fig. 3 illustrating the ten transfer mechanism. 
Fig. 5 is a view similar to Fig. 4 but seen from the opposite side. 
 Fig. 6 is a view seen from the left in Fig. 4 and from the right in Fig. 5 illustrating the denominational order of the totalizer and the corresponding transmission gear, the lowest denominational order being to the left and the highest order to the right of the figure. 
 Fig. '7 is a lateral view in detail of a numeral key row. 
reference to Fig. l. In this figure, i, 2, 3, 4, 5, l, 'L and l designate eight analysing keys correspending each to one of the eight business transactions as indicated to the left of the keys in accordance with the designation above referred to. l titled?, 
designate eight restoring keys corresponding each to the business transactions opposite io that of the corresponding analysing key as indicated to the right of said restoring keys. That is to say, key 
for instance, represents the business transaction T-i,-F because key i represents the business transaction F+T and so on. Between the two rows of keys there are shown six totalizers representing in order from above and downwards the assets totalizer RA', the liabilities totaiizer RB', the chronological total amount totalizer TR, the balance totalizer RC', the proiit totaiizer RB" and. the loss totalizer RA". The manner in which the different analysing and restoring keys select said totalizers for actuation and simultaneously select the sense in which each of said selected totalizers shall be actuated is illustrated by way of lines drawn from the keys to the totalizers. Thus it is seen, for instance, that the analysing key i representing the business transaction: increase oi loss and decrease of assets, that is F+T-, selects the assets totalizer RA', the loss totalizer RA" and the balance totalizer RC', and simultaneously determines subtraction for RA', addition for R and subtraction tor RC'. 
Further this key. as well asall other analysing keys, selects the chronological total amount totalizer 'IR adding all items in succession. It is of course understood that there may be more than only one such adding totalizer TR. The 
restoring key y selects the assets totalizer RA', the balance totalizer RC', the loss totalizer RA" and the chronological total amount totalizer TR and simultaneously determines addition for 'RA'l and for RC' and subtraction for RA" in accordance with the business transaction represented by said key. In other AWords the analysing key I and the restoring key fi 7 XandX are only connected with the chronological total amount totalizer TR, said keys representing business transactions which only cause a transfer in the assets and the liabilities accounts, -respectively. In Fig. l, said keys are shown by dotted lines to be connected with the plus side and the minus side of the assets totalizer RA and the `plus side and the minus side of the liabilities'to= talizer RB', respectively, as a depression of said keys will influence corresponding printing devices without influencing the corresponding totalizers. 
The general arrangement of the machine The embodiment of the machine illustrated in the drawings comprises (see especially Fig. 2) two similar machine sections A and B placed on each side of a third machine section C. The three machine sections A, B and C comprises each two adding and subtracting totalizers. For the sake of clearness the totalizers of the central sectionv C only are shown in Fig. 2 and are designated RC', RC", respectively, but as also the other totalizers will be referred to in the fol-lowing specification, they will be termed RA', RA" and RB', RB" belonging to the machine sections A and B, respectively. According to Fig. 3 the machine section A is shown to comprise also a chronological total amount totalizer TR. Each machine section comprises further a printing device TA, TB, and TC, respectively, with appurtenant hammer mechanism SA, SB and SC, respectively. The three machine sections A, B and C are controlled by a common key-board D. 
The key-board The key-board D comprises in the embodiment shown several rows of keys, viz. reckoned from the left in Fig. 2 one series E of eight keys I to 8 inclusive for selecting the totalizers and `their sense of calculation and corresponding to the analysing keys I to; I in Fig. 1, one series F ot eight keys 8 xto X inclusive, corresponding to the restoring keys I 8 X to X in Fig. 1, one series G of twelve keys for recording the name of the month and designated by the ilrst three letters of the month, the keys corresponding to the months January to September being arranged in the third key row and the keys corresponding to the months OctoberA to December in the fourth key row, one series H of three .keys and one series K of nine keys for recording the day of the month and designated by I, 2, 
3 and I to 9, respectively, and at last a plurality of rows of numeral keys proper, as a whole designated L, in the embodiment shown five rows. 
Further the rst key row contains an additional key marked K+, the second key row an additional key marked K and the fourth key row an additional key marked L1. The function of these additional keys will be explained later. lit should be observed that also other keys may be provided fulfilling different objects. 
The transfer system from the key-board to the selector comprises a plate I6 pivotally mounted at its opposite ends at 'I8 on a key-board`v partition I9. A spring 2B tends to hold said plate I6 in such position that its fore end is right before a downward projection 2| on the actuator rod I4, the distance between saidprojection 2I and the fore end of the plate I 6 corresponding to one tooth for the purpose to beV described later on. The key rods I0 are eachprovided with a projection 22, and a spring 23 connects said projection with another key-board partition 24. The actuator rod I4 is at its fore end provided with a projection 25. In Figs. 7 and 8 one key is illustrated in its depressed position and, as shown, the projection 22 on the corresponding key rod I0 forms in said position a stop for the actuator rod- I4 in a manner to be'described later on. 
 During the setting operation a depressed key in each of the rows G, H, K and L is held in its depressed position by a locking bar I5 extending along the key row and provided with a pin II for each key rod I0, said vpins I1 co-operating with shoulders 21 on the key rods I0. A spring 29 'tends to move the bar I5 backwards, that is to say to the left in Fig. 7. Any depressed key Y is returned to starting position by a 'restoring of an arm secured to the rocking main shaft |00, the lever 68 being at this end provided with an inclined surface 12. the lever 68 is provided with an. elongated slot T4 mounted to slide and to rock on a stud 13 secured to the machine frame. A spring 10 tends to rock the lever 63 in counter-clockwise direction (Fig. 3). 
 The actuator rods I4 are each actuated by. a spring 26 (see Fig. 3) secured at its one end at 28 to the rod I4 and at its other end at 30 to the machine frame. The springs 26 tend to move the actuator rods backwards (to the left in Fig. 3). At their rear ends the actuator rods I4 are each pivotally connected at 32 to a toothed gear or actuator wheel 34. The gears 34 are all loosely journalled on a common shaft 36 mounted in any suitable manner in side walls 31 and 39 of the machine frame, see Fig. 2. These toothed gears 34 form the actuator of the machine and will be more fully described later. 
 in the embodiment shown, the third row, reckoned from the left in Fig. 2, comprises, as stated above, nine keys marked Jan to Sep and the fourth key row contains the remaining month keys Oct, Nov, and Dec." These month keys in the fourth key row are coupled tothe third key row and operate the actuator rod l of said key row which, consequently, may assume twelve different positions, the arrangement above described being chosen for the sake of symmetry. 
 The transfer system for the analysing keys and the restoring keys differs somewhat from that for the other keys. The key rows E and F have a common actuator rod which i'or the sake of convenience is also designated i4. The keys consist each of a key-rod 40 (see Figs. 3, 9 and 1C) having a key-tab 42 and abutting each with its lower end against one end oi' an angular catch 44 fulcrumed at 46 in the key-board frame in any suitable manner. A spring 48 tends to maintain the key in raised position. The catch 44 engages normally a releasing bar 50 holding said bar in lowered position against the action of a spring 52. The bar 50 is provided with three abutments 54, 56 and 50 in the order from above' and downwards. Arranged above/the uppermost row of abutments 54 is a restoring plate 60 normally out oi' engagement with said abutments 5ft. One edge E2 of the plate 50 forms a shaft suitably journalled in the frame at Si and $3 and serving as swinging axle for the plate. Pivotally connected to said plate 60 at one end on the edge opposite to the shaft B2 is a link 64 extending downwards and provided at its lower end with an eye 56. Projecting into said eye 66 is the one end of lever 68 Flg. 3). 
 Arranged above the second row of abutments 5B on the releasing bars 50 (see Figs. 3 and 9) is a stop bar pivotally mounted in the machine frame at 82.- ln its normal position this stop bar 80 prevents any backward movement of the actuator rod i4 from the starting position thereof, the abutment 84 on said selector rod I4 cooperating with some play with said stop bar 80. The actuator rod i4 is arranged between the second abutment row 56 and the third abutlment row 58 and is pivotally connected, in the same manner as other actuator rods i4, at its rear end at 32 to one of the actuator wheels 34 of the selector. 
 Extending below the key-board D (see Figs. 3 and 10) are two rows of shafts each comprising eight shafts and 92, respectively. Journalled Intermediate its ends l are each connected with one arm of the bellcrank lever 98 by means of a similar wire 58. In order to permit transmission from the keyboard to the three machine sections, the shafts 90 and 92 extend laterally of the keyboard at both sides thereof, and for each section there lare provided similar bell-crank levers 34 and 96, 
preferably at both sides of the unit, as is shown in Fig. 2. Arranged below the actuator wheels 34 of each machine section and at both sides thereof is a pair of bell-crank levers 102 and |04 pivotally journalled in the machine frame about spindles H0 and H2, respectively. Wires |06 connect one arm oi each of the bell-cranks $4 and 96 with one arm of either a plus lever 104 or a minus lever I02'or both of the various totalizers in the three machine sections A, B and C in accordance with the business transactions represented by the corresponding analysing or restoring key (see Fig. 1l). The other arms of said bell-cranks are connected to levers or bell cranks to control the setting of the various totalizers in a manner to be described later. 
 When one analysing key only is used, which is adapted to be set in different positions, it may be carried out in practice as shown for instance in Figs. i9, 20 and 2l or Figs. 22, 23 and 24. In the first-named case an arm 30l is ilxed to a shaft 300 plvotally mounted in the frame of the machine. The upper end of the arm. 30! supports by means of a pin 302 a lever 303 having a knob 303a for handling the same. This lever is integral with two lateral arms 305 and 30E and the shaft proper 303 is made to slide in a slot 320 in the key board plate 32|. The slot has branch slots 322 and 322x (see Fig. 2l) extending towards each of the numerals i to 3 and l il X to X respectively, in accordance with the scheme shown in Fig. l. The arm 301 has a bore hole containing a spring 323 which presses a ball 304 against the lever 303 in one of three recesses on the underneath side thereof, in order to retain the lever in one of three positions, viz. either in the central position in the slot 320 or at the into the slot 322 belonging to the analysing key 6 or into the slot 322x: belonging to the analysing key is swung to the left in Figs. 20 and 2l, the arm 305 will actuate the catch 44 (Fig. 19), which releases the bar 50 by means of the spring 52, as described above, and the totalizers belonging to a business transaction of the kind 8 (T4-S+) are set. When the lever is swung to the right, 
operating with brushes, in which case either 'the` card or the brushes are moved `relative to the other member. The said electro-magnets 3|| are mounted in any suitable manner, for lnstance by means of brackets 326, on a partition 321 oi' the machine frame. Each magnet has an armature 3|0 pivotally mounted by means of a pin 3|2 on the bracket 325. The free end of the armature takes the place of the catches 44 of Figs. 3, 10 and 19, that is to say it normally rests on the top of the releasing bar 50. A spring 329 tends to hold the armature in said position. The use of electromagnets brings about the advantage that the contact device or devices for energising the coils of the magnets 3|| may be situated, ii' desired, at a distance of the machine proper, and further other machines, apparatus or mechanisms which may be required for book-balancing or other accounting purposes could be inserted in the circuits connecting the contact devices with the electromagnets 3| I. It is obvious that when :energizing the coil 3| the armature 3|0 is attracted, thereby releasing the bar 50 in the manner described above and required for setting the totalizers under consideration. The contact devices may be carried out in any suitable manner, those shown in Figs. 23 and 24 consisting of pairs of contact springs 333, 33| and 332, 333. Each pair oi' contacts may be closed by a lever 303 similar to that shown in Fig. 20 and pivotally mounted on a swingable arm 30|, or the closure may be eected by individual keys. The closure ci the vvarious circuits may, as stated above, also be eiected by means of perforated cards and brushes. -In the example shown the contact springs 330and 332 are insulated by means of blocks 33E and 331. 
respectively, from the contact springs 33| and 333. All contacts 33| and 333 are by wires 341 electrically connected with each other and with one pole of a source of power, for instance the battery 333. Each of the contact springs 330 is connected by means of a wire 333 with one end ci the coil oi the pertaining electromagnet corresponding to the analysing keys to 3, `while the contact springs 332 are connected with the electromagnets' corresponding to the restoring keys l 3 Xto x The other end of the coil of the electromagnet 3M is connected by a wire 34| and via a contact device 343 to the opposite pole oi' said battery 339. The contact device 343 is adapted to be closed by a motor or starting key 34e which is purely diagrammatically shown in Fig. 23. The operation is as follows: At first the arm 30| is swung in position opposite to one of the contact devices 330, 33| or 333, 332, thereafter the lever 303 is turned, whereby the contact springs make contact, and finally the motor key 345 is depressed. By this means the pertaining electromagnet 3|| is energised and the bar 30 is released. whereby the totalizers in question are prepared for actuation. 
 The actuator Asv already mentioned, the actuator comprises a series of actuator wheels 34 loosely journalled on a common shaft 36 and each actuated by a spring |32 tending to rotate the wheel in clockwise direction as seen in Fig. 3. In the embodiment shown. each machine section comprises twelve such actuator wheels 34, viz. reckoned from the right in Fig. 2 first five wheels corresponding to the five rowsof numeral keys L. one wheel for each of the fifth row K, fourth row H and third row G, one wheel common to the second and first key rows lF and E and finally three wheels belonging to a device for chronological numeration to be described later on. The shaft 36 extends transversely through the whole machine and, consequently, it is not only common to the actuator wheels 34 of one section but to the actuator wheels of all three sections A, B and C. These wheels are each in engagement with pinions ||4a, ||4b and ||4c, respectively, (Figs. 2 and 3) and the three pinions engaging corresponding actuator wheels 34 in the three sections A, B and C are secured to a common shaft ||6 suitably journalled in the machine frame. In Fig. 2 only one of these shafts is shown in order to make the drawing clearer. 
 As shown in Fig. 2, the actuator wheels 34 of the central section C only are connected with the key-board by means of the actuator rods I4 or are controlled by the device for numeration in chronological order, but as the said wheels 34 in' the central section C are each positively connected with corresponding wheels in the two lateral sections A and B by means of the pinions ll4a., ||4b, ||4c etc. and the shafts IIE, all three machine sections will, consequently, be set in uniform manner in accordance with the setting on the key-board D. As the various totalizers are normally, that is to say at the setting operation, kept out of engagement with the actuator Wheels 34, said totalizers will not, of course, be set in the same manner in all three sections but only the actuator wheels of said sections. 
 The toothed wheels 34 are in permanent engagement with two upper groups of transmission gears |30 each group loosely journaled on a common shaft |13 (see Figs. 3 and lil).4 Further the actuator wheels 34 of section A which correspond to the numeral key rods L are in permanent engagement with another lower group of transmission wheels |30 loosely mounted on a similar shaft |13. An adding and subtracting totalizer is provided above each of said upper groups of transmission gears and in section A a. chronological total amount totalizer TR is provided at the side of said lower transmission gears |30. 
 Secured to the actuator shaft 36 are pairs of arms |34 for each section, the free ends of which are connected by rods |36 extending each through one section and resting normally against one of the spokes |31 of the actuator wheels 34 thus serving as stop rods for said wheels holding them in starting position. Pivoted tc one of said rods |36 is a connecting rod |38, the other endof which is movably connected with a crank |40 loosely mounted on the main driving shaft |00. Secured to said shaft |00 is an arm |42 provided with a pin '|44 which is adapted to engage said crank |40, when the shaft' is rocked in clockwise direction. s A spring |46 tends to gears it?, catch lsst l:arranged below the totalizer and journalier" The  IThe adding and subtracting totalisers ar ranged above the upper groups oi transmission gears itil (see Fiss. 3 and lo) comprise each series of digit disks loll carrying digits irons l .9. The digit disks itil are each rigidly connected with a toothed gear (adding gear) |52, an the digit dislts loll and said sears are loose mounted on a common spindle loll. *lhs L .s lbl are each in permanent engagement with another gear itil (subtracting gear) loosely mounted on a spindle lill The spindles flrl e loll are journalled at their ends in bridge pi already mentioned section A contains chronological total amount tctalizer TR (see 2l and 10) comprising a plurality of digit `d lle 265 loosely mounted on spindle 26d and each rigidly connected with a toothed gear 268 adapted to v{zo-operate with the 'transmission gears lll@ oi said totalizer in permanent engagement with the actuator wheels Bil oi this section correspending to the numeral key rows. The spinelle 261i is fixed in bridge pieces 2lb loosely journalled on a shaft 2li? mounted in the machine frame. 
 All 'totalizers are normally held out ol engagement with the respective transmission gears i3d as will be described later on. 
The control of the totalieers from the lacy-boord The various adding and subtracting totalizers are set for addition or subtraction by means ci the analysing and restoring keys (lll and f') inv accordance with the business transaction to be recorded. As all these totalizers RA', RA, RB', RB", RC and RC" are controlled by the bellcrank levers lili and Hill in the same manner, it will be sufcient to describe the controlling means for one pair of said totalizera say RA' and R. 
 The plus lever it (see Figs. 3 and lll) of the totalizer RA" is connected by means of a wire lll with onearrn o a bell-crank catch lever 56d the machine frame at said lever lli@ b engagement with the corrc 235i, end of rnlar support tote' i engagement with c. 
 lllll to bell-cranks 94| and 9E oi all analysing and restoring keys. The minus lever mit of the totallzer RA' is connected by means o a wire i6? with a pawl HD pivotally journalled on a pin i12 secured to the machine frame. Normally engaging said pawl is a double-armed lever lH loosely journalled on a shaft llo mounted in the machine frame and common to all machine sections (see Fig. 2) A spring |18 tends to rotate said lever |14 in counterclockwise direction. At its upper end the lever |151 carries the abovementioned bridge piece |66 in which the totallzer RA' is mounted. Since the shafts |56 terminate in the bridge pieces Hill, it will be seen that the selection for subtraction also selects a totalizer foroperation, the wheels being moved into engagement with the actuators lil') when bell cranlr. 'NM or 2m! as the case may be is operated. l spring; ll tends to 'maintain the tot lizers supported by the above-mentioned catch lever |84 and to turn the totalisers into engage ment with the transmission gears ltll, 'when supporting means ci the totalicers are operated by the main shaft lllt' in o. manner to be described. Means are provided. 'to prevent madvertent movement o the totallzer wheels as they move into engagement with the transmission gears, said means comprising locking bar liti having teeth engaging the adding wheels i152 and supported by arms l62 plvoted to the upper end o the levers lll. 
The control of the total-leer from 'the driving' shaft i'ivotally mounted at |82 is a curved member ll havingr an arm i3?) and kept in the position. shown in Fig. 3 by a pawl ll! against 4the action ci a spring lll-B, said pawl being iulcrumed at |92. Secured to the main shaft |00 is an arm |94 (see also Fig. l0) having a roller |96 adapted to cooperate with said pawl '190. When at the end of the forward rocking movement o' the main shaft |00 amounting approximately to 110 the roller H36 strikes and lifts the pawl |96, the member |84 together with its arm |66 will be released, Aand when at the end of the return stroke the roller |96 engages an inclined surface i533 of a projection 200 of the curved member itil, said member is again brought into engagement with the pawl |90. Movably connected with the arm at its free end :is a link 202, the other end ol which engages one arm of a bell-crank lever 204 fulcrumed at 206. At the free end oi the other arm said lever 2M is connected by means oi a link 201 with one arm of a similar hell-crank lever 208 fulcrumed at 2H). The levers 2M and 20S have pins 204 that extend beneath and serve as supports for extensions 2|2 of the bridge supporting arms |6| of the two totalisers RA and R Secured to the shaft 212 of the bridge pieces 2l() of the chronological total amount totalizer TR is an arm 2M which by means of a link 2li: is connected with an arm 218 secured to the shalt t'li of one of the releasing levers 2M. The arm has a sector 2lb, and the adjacent 'o piece ill@ a similar sector 21|. Between a 1 sectors is lei*J a ll'll. A spring 211 conne` f* 4deems provided to restore any of the luidn lng and subtracting totalizers when the totaltzer is set for subtraction in a manner to be described, said means comprising an arm 2N (see Figs. il and l0) secured to the main sha'lt |63 and pro vided with a pin 2|6 engaging an elongated slot 2l8 in the lower end of a link 22D, the upper end of which is pivotally connected with the free end of an arm 222 secured to the shaft |76 of the lever |14 of totalizer RA". Secured to said sha-ft |16 is another arm 224 connected by a link 226 with a similar arm 228 secured to the shaft |16 pertaining to totalizer RA'. The arms 224 and 22B are each provided with a pin 23D bearing on one side of the lever |14. Thus, the levers |14 are normally locked by the pins 230 in the position of engagement with the pawls |10. 
. Secured toshaft |9| Ten transfer mechanism ment with the corresponding actuator wheel 34. A spring connects the gears |30 and |3I, said spring being fixed to a pin |11 on gear |3| and on another pin |19 fixed to gear -I30 and engaging an arcuate slot |8| in gear |3I. `The Vshaft |13 as gear |30 and in permanent engagespring |15 tends to rock gear |30 in clockwise Y direction as seen in Fig. 4 and, consequently, in counter-clockwise direction as seen in Fig. 5. Gear |3| has another arcuate slot |85 and gear |30 has a pin |83 engaging said slot. 
 Rigidly connected with each adding and subtracting totalizerwheel |52 and |56 is a disk having a tooth |81 and |89, respectively, right before the zero tooth of the totalizer wheels. Loosely mounted on a shaft |9|A is a ten transfer pawl in the form of a bell-crank lever having one of its arms |93 shaped to form a trip |95 adapted to co-operate with the teeth |81'or |789 of the next lower denominational order, whereas the other arm |91 of the pawl is adaptedtoco-operate with the pin |83. 
 A projection 25| on pawl |93, |91 carries a pin |99 adapted alternately to engage one of two recesses and 203 in a locking lever 205 rockable on a shaft 209. A spring 2|| connects the vten transfer pawl with lever 205 and tendsy to keep the pin les in mesh with either of said recesses. 
ing its free curved with pin |83. In starting position Athe angular 9| at opposite sides of `the totalizer are arms 2|5 the free ends of which are connected by a rod 2|1 adapted to engage the locking levers 205. 
 The ten transfer mechanism is restored to starting position by the following mechanism (see especially Fig. 10). 
 Secured to the driving shaft |00 for each section of the machine is an arm 22| having a pin 223 adapted to co-operate with a catch 225 pivoted to one arm of a bell-crank lever 221 fulcrumed at 229. A spring 23| tends to keep said catch 225 in engagement with a stop 233 on lever 221 and the latter in engagement with a stop 235 on the machine frame. the other arm of lever 221 with a bellfcrank lever 239 fulcrumed at 24| and having its other arm connected by a link 243 with an arm 245 secured to shaftl 9|. A link 241 connects said arm 245 with a bell-cranklever 248 fixed to the shaft |9| of the ten transfer mechanism of totalizer RA', and another link 249 connects said bellcrank lever 248 with a bell-crank lever 250 fixed to the shaft |9| of the ten transfer mechanism of the total amount totalizer TR..- 
Theprinting devices is arestoring ar1n2|3 havend adapted toco-operate A link 231 connects` Each actuator wheel 34 (see Fig. 3) is provided with a toothed segment 232 which in the embodiment shown has a smaller diameter than the wheel 34 proper. Engaging said segment 232 is4 toothed wheel 34. Secured to vthis segment 234` is an angularly shaped arm 238 pivotally connected atl its free end by means of a link 240 to a projection 242 on a type carrier 244 provided at its upper end with types 246 in the form of small pins extending through and beyond thetype carrier 244 at'both sides theerof. At their one end the pins 246 carry numerals from 0 to 9 in the order from above and downwards except the pins of the type carrier corresponding to the month keys which carry designations from Jan to Dec and the pins of the type carrier corresponding to the fourth key row, which carry only the numerals 1, 2 and 3. 
 The fore ends of the type pins 246 and 250 are adapted to co-operate with a hammer mechanism designated in Figs. 2 and 3 by SA, SB, SC and SD, respectively. As all these hammer mechanisms are identical and controlled by the main drivingshaft in the same manner, it will be sufficient to describe one mechanism, for instance SC, reference being had to Fig. 3 and especially to Fig. 14. 
 The hammer mechanism comprises hammers 350 journalled on a shaft 35|. The hub of each hammer has an arm 352 and a projection 353 arranged diametrically to each other. Arm 352 is actuated by a spring 354 tending to move the hammer 350 in counter-clockwise direction. Further the hammer 350 is provided with a pin 355 cooperating with a pawl 356, all said pawls being fixed to a common locking bar 351 which is rotatably mounted on a shaft 358 and to which the springs 354 are secured. Connected with the able on a stud 310 and adapted to be actuated and rotated in clockwise direction by a roller 31| .on an arm 312 fixed to the main driving shaft |00 (see Fig. 3). 
 Levers 313, one for each type carrier 244, are rotatably mounted on a shaft 314 and have their one arm 315 formed as a hook 316 which in starting position of the type carrier is right in front of a recess 311 in the carrier, whereas the other arm 318 of the lever 313 is actuated by a spring 319 tending to rock the lever in clockwise direction. The upper lend of arm 318 is adapted to be rocked below the projection 353 in order to lock the corresponding hammer 350. All the printing devices are controlled by one and the same operating means 369, 312, the links 364 of the hammer mechanisms SA and SB of the two lateral printing devices TA and TB being by arms 380 connected to a shaft; 383 mounted in the machine frame, said arms 380 being by links 38| pivoted to the stud 392 on the operating lever 369. The platens of the printing mechanisms of the left hand and right hand sections are shown in Fig. 3 and designated PA and PC, respectively. i 
 An additional printing device is provided, by means of which the item recorded can be regis'- tered on the day-list on which the items are printed in chronological order without respect to the mode of calculation.' This printing device TD is diagrammatically shown in Fig. 3 and consists of type pins 250 arranged in the lower part of the type carriers 244 in the same manner as in the printing device TA. The printing is performed on a paper on the platen PD, the paper being Wound from a roll 252 onto a roll 254. 
The device for chronological numeration As stated above, the actuator of each machine section contains a plurality of actuator wheels 34 belonging to a device for chronological numeration. ln the embodiment shown these wheels are the three first ones reckoned from the left in Fig. 2. These wheels 34 engage each a pinion 256 (see Fig. 3) loosely journalled on a common shaft 258. Secured to each of the pinions 256 is a larger gear 260. The actuator wheels 34 associated with this device do not, of course, co-operate with any totalizer wheels but each with a printing unit. The gear wheels 200 and ten transfer gears 26| engaging same as well as the pinions 256 form together a counter which is fed one step for each recorded business transaction. The counter may be of the wellknown Veeder type but in the drawings a counter is shown of the type described in my co-pending application for Letters Patent led on September 25th, 1937, Serial No. 165,775 which application is referred to with regard to the structure and operation of the counter. For the sake of explanation of the operation of the counter in combination with the machine according to this invention it should only be mentioned that the means for stepwisely advancing the counter comprises a locking member in the form of a catch 385 adapted to set said feeding means out of function as will be explained later. 
The mode of operation of the machine In order to explain the mode of operation of the machine it is assumed that of the two totalizers of the left hand section the totalizer RA'- records assets and the totalizer RA" 1oss, that of the two totalizers of the right hand section the totalizer RB' records liabilities and the totalizer R profit and that the rear totalizer RC of the central section records thebalance. It is further assumed that the business transaction to be recorded is the following: 
 On the 6th May note-paper is bought in cash for $7.25. The cashier analysesY this business transaction correctly to be of the rst class (F-1-T-, Fig. 1) and writes a number l on the voucher. When the operator of the machine gets the voucher in his hand and has to record the business transaction, he depresses the following keys reckoned from the left in Fig. 2: in the rst row E the key I, in Athe third row F the key May, in the fifth row K the key 6, in the eighth row the key 1, in the ninth row the key 2 and in the tenth row the key 5. 
 On depressing the key I in the first row E which key is connected with the minus lever |02 of the rear totalizer RA' (assets=T-) of the left hand section A, the plus lever |04 of the fore totalizer RA" (loss=F-l) of the same section, with the minus lever |02 of the balance totalizer RC and with the bell-crank |64a pertaining to the total amount totalizer TR in accordance with the diagram shown in Fig. 1, the catch 44 releases the bar 50 which moves upwards under the action of the spring 52 whereby on the one hand the abutment 56 on said bar swings the stop bar 80`out of engagement with the projection 84 of the actuator rod |4 and on the other hand the abutment 58 forms a stop for the actuator rod |4 on the following backward movement of same. The actuator rod I4 cannot yet move backwards being prevented therefrom by its connection with the corresponding actuator wheel 34 which in turn is locked by the stop rod |36. When the bar moves upwards, the corresponding bell-crank levers 94 and 96 are turnedl in counter-clockwise direction as seen in Figs. 3 and 10 causing the levers |02 and |04 to turn in the same direction. The turning of the minus levers |02 of the rear totalizer RA of the left hand section A and the rear totalizer RC of the central section C results in the pawls |10 releasing the double-armed levers |14 which are now free to swing in counter-clockwise direction under the action of the springs |18. This swinging is, however, prevented by the engagement of said levers |14 with the pin 230 on the arm 228. By the turning of the plus lever |04 of the fore totalizer RA" of the left hand section A. the supporting bellcrank lever |64 of said totalizer will be swung in clockwise direction out of engagement with the end of the spindle |54, this totalizer being, however, still supported by the bridge piece |60 resting with its extension 2|2 on one arm of the bell crank lever 208. When the bell-crank 94 is rocked, the bell-crank |64a resting against the spindle 264 of the totalizer TR will also be rocked leaving the bridge pieces 210 of the totalizer TR free to move to the right (Fig. 3). This movement, however, is still prevented by the sector 215 bearing on the sector 21|. When later the bell-crank 204 is rocked in clockwise direction, the link 216 and thus the arm 214 will be lifted, so that/the spring 211 can draw the wheels of the totalizer TR into engagement with the transmission gears |30. 
 On depressing the key May the corresponding key-rod |0 (see Figs. '7 and 8) moves downwards releasing the corresponding actuator rod |4 from engagement with the locking plate |6 and forming with its lug 22 a stop for the following backward movement of the actuator rod I4. In the same manner the depression of the keys 6, 7, 2 and 5 will release the corresponding actuator rods |4, the different keyrods I0 forming stops for said rods |4l on the following backward movement thereof. For the same reason, as stated above with regard to the analysing key actuator rod |4, these rods cannot move backward, before the main shaft |00 is actuated. The machine is now set for the record in question. 
 Before actuating the main shaft, the voucher and two account cards are inserted in the printing devices TC, TA and TB, respectively, the account cards being, ofcourse, selected in accordance with the class of business transaction to be recorded. In the example referred to the two accounts which are influenced by the business transaction referred to are the cash account and the expense account. 
 When now the main shaft |00 is rocked in clockwise direction, the arm 2|4 secured to the shaft is swung in the same direction, the pin 2|6 on said arm sliding in the slot 2|8 in the link 220 which thus is free to move upwards permitting the double-armed levers |14 of the totalizers RA' and RC', which were released from their engagement with the corresponding pawls |10, to swing in counter-clockwise direction under the action of the springs |18 causing the totalizers RA' and RC to swing in the same direction through such an angle that the subtraction gears |56 of the totalizers come right above the corresponding transmission gears |30, 
 stop bars |36 out of engagement with the actu-. 
ator wheels, andthe actuator wheels 34 are free to turn `an angle corresponding to ten teeth of the totalizer wheels. Thereby the actuator rods i4 which correspond to keys that have'been actuated, are free to move backwards, that is to say in the example referred to the actuator rods i4 corresponding to the first, third, fth, eighth, ninth and tenth key rows. 
 As already described the stopping plates i3 of the key rows G, H, K and L are so arranged in relation to the actuator rods I4 determining I the setting of the actuator wheels 34 that said actuator wheels are always rotated through one tooth even when the corresponding stopping plates i6 have not been actuated, that is to say the actuator wheels corresponding to non-actuated key rows are turned one tooth and those corresponding to actuated key rowsare turned an additional tooth beyond the angle corresponding to the position of the depressed key rod lll. As will be described later this additional movement through one tooth is necessary only for the operation of the ten transfer means as shown in Figs. 4, 5 and 6. that is to say only for the actuator rods of the numeral key rows L but not for those of the key rows G, H, K, although the arrangement has been adopted also for the last-mentioned key rows for the sake of symmetry. 
 ln agreement herewith and with the example referred to the actuator wheels 34 appurtenant to depressed keys will be turned in the following manner reckoned from the left in Fig. 2: the rst gear one tooth (analysing key l), the third gear six teeth (month May), the fifth gear seven teeth (the day 6) and the eighth, ninth and tenth gears, eight, three and six teeth ($7.25), 
Y respectively. Further rotation ofthe gears inuencing the analysing key actuator wheel is prevented by the actuator rod I4 abutting against the abutment 53 on the releasing rod 50 of the key l. Also further rotation of those iniiuencing the other gears is prevented by the actuator rods i4 abutting against the end of the keyrods l0 of the depressed keys. All actuator wheels 34 corresponding to key rows which do not contain any depressed key are turned one tooth, until the corresponding actuator rods strike the locking plates i6. The actuator wheels which have been actuated have, consequently, in order from the left in Fig. 2 been set on nl May, 6. 7, "2 and 5 andl the transmission gears |30 of said gears are set in the same manner. 
During the forward stroke of the'main shaft |00 thecounter 256, 260 for chronological nu-v meration has been moved forward. one step, so that the corresponding gears 34 and type rods 244 have been set on a number one unit higher than the preceding number. For the sake of illustration it may be assumed that the preceding number was 125 and the new number, consequently, 126. 
On account of thepositive connection between 9 the actuator wheels 34 in the three sections of the machine the setting of said wheels in the central'section C causes a corresponding setting of the wheels in the lateral sections A and B. By 
 means of the toothed sectors 234 and the linkages 238, 240 the setting of the actuator wheels 34 is transferred to the corresponding type carriers 244 of the four printing devices TA, TB, TC and TD, and when in the manner to be described the hammer mechanisms SA, SB, SC and SD are released at the end of the forward stroke or immediately before, the following entry 126 1 May 6 7.25 will be printed in credit on the cash account card, in debit on the expense account card, on the voucher and on the day-list. 
 The release of the hammer mechanisms will be described with reference to the mechanism SC as shown in Figs. 3 and 14. 
 At the end of the forward stroke of the driving shaft |00 roller 31| on arm 312 is turned into engagement with lever 353 rocking same in clockwise direction. This movement is transferred by the linkage 3GB-364 to arm 363 which together with shaft 35| is rocked in counter-clockwise direction. Thereby bridge 353 but the hammers 350 are still locked by pawls 356. After continued rotation of bridge 362 levers 313 are-also released. For all such type carriers 244 which have not been actuated this results in the levers 313 with their upper arms 313 being turned below the corresponding pawls 353 under the action of springs 313, the lower arms 316 of the levers 313 engagingthe recesses 311 in the type carriers 244. This results in the corresponding hammers 3,50 being locked. 0n 
 the contrary for such carriers 244 which correter-clockwise direction causing the hammers to be released from their engagement by the pawls 356. Such hammers 350 which are not locked by levers 313 are now wholly free and turned by springs 354 in counter-clockwise direction striking the types 246 which are in printing position. 
All the totalizers are still out oi engagement with the transmission RA" and RC 204e on the locking levers 234, totalizer TR on account of the connection of its arm 211i with the arm 213 and all other totalizers by being supported by corresponding supporting bell-crank levers |64. Immediately before the end of the forward stroke of the main shaft |00 the roller 196 on the arm |34 strikes the pawl i90, thus releasing the ymember |84 with its arm |36 which swings downwards under the action of the spring 188, thereby swinging the levers 204 in clockwise direction. The totalizers supported by the supporting levers |64 remain unactuated, whereas the totalizers RA', RA" and RC" loose their supports and fall down and totalizer TR is swung into engagement with the transmission gears 30. In the example referred to the subtraction gears |53 of the totalizer RA'; the addition gears |52 of the totalizer RA", the subtraction gears |56 of the totalizer RC' and the gears I268 of the totalizer TR will thus be brought into engagement with the transmission gears, 30, said transmission gears |30 having been set during the gears |33, totalizers RA', 
362 releases all pawls by being supported by the pins setting of the selector. When now the main shaft with the arm M2 allows the crank liti] to carry out its return stroke under the fiction of the spring |06 nothing occurs in the example referred to, before the arm i3d secured to the actuator shaft 36 has been turned through an angle corresponding to two teeth, the stop bars i3@ abutting then against a spoke |37 of the gear Sil corresponding to the ligure Tl which gear will then partake in the following rotation. When the arm i313 turns further, through an angle equivalent to one tooth of the gear lfl, the gear 34 corresponding to date number is brought into position for engagement. After a further rotation equivalent to one tooth, the gear 3d corresponding to May and that correspending to the figure 5 are brought into position for engagement. When three teeth remain. the gear corresponding to the gure 2 will be brought into position for engagement. During this rotation the corresponding gears in the totalizers RA, RA", RC and TR will be turned through corresponding angles by the transmission gears i319. Thus, at the end of the return stroke of the main shaft |00 $7.25 have been subtracted from the amounts in the totalizers RA' and RC and added to the amounts in the totalizers RA and TR. 
Near the end of the return stroke the rollerl iSB on the arm ldabuts against the inclined `surface |98 on the projection 200 of the curved member |8 causing the link 202 to turn the levers 204 in counter-clockwise direction whereby the actuated totalizers RA', RA and RC are raised and the totalizer TR is swung out of engagement with the transmission gears |30. Thereby the totalizers RA" and TR are returned to normal positions, but the totalizers RA' and RC' are still in subtraction positions. They are returned to normal positions by the pin 2|6 on the arm 2|4 abutting against the lower end of the slot 21s 'in the uns 22u at the end of the return stroke, whereby the link 220 is moved downwards swinging by means o the pins 230 the actuated levers H4 of thetotalizers RA and RC set for subtraction in clockwise direction into engagement with the pawls thus returning said totalizers into normal position. 
 At the end o1 the return stroke the arm l5 (Fig. 3) secured to the main shaft 00 is swung into engagement with the inclined surface 'l2 on the lever G0 turning said leve-r in clockwise direction whereby the end of said lever engaging links 6d and d3 is lowered. The downward movement of link @il causes the restoring plate Sil to be turned into engagement with the abutment 5ft on the releasing bar 50 o-the actuated analysing lfzey l see Figs. 3 and 9), said bar being thereby lowered against the action of spring 52 into engagement with the spring-actuated catch Il which raises the key into normal position. The downward movement of link 3 causes the restoring bar l5 to be moved to the right in Figs. 3 and 7 causing the depressed keys in the key rows G, H, K and L to be raised into starting position under the action of the springs 23. 
 Now the machine is restored to normal position and a new business transaction can be immediately recorded. 
 Ten transfer in a totalizer is effected in the following manner (see especiallyFigs. 4, 5 and 6). The above said additional movement of the actuator rods i4 and additional rotation of the corresponding actuator Wheels through one tooth occurs at the end of the return stroke, 
This rotation is transferred Aonly to the gears ll in mesh with-the actuator wheels but not to the wheels 130. This motion or" gear l3| ls permitted as said gear is capable of being turned one tooth independent of the gear |38 on account of the pin and slot connection |83, |85. Consequently, the correct setting of the actuator wheels 3ft determined by the depression o the numeral keys is transferred to gears |30 but not the additional tooth. 
 When during the return stroke of the machine the amount set up is transferred to the totalizer and a ten transfer is to take place, that is to say when a totalizer wheel passes from nine to zero in counterclockwise direction as seen' in Figs. 3 and 4, the tooth |81 or |89 on such a Wheel presses down the arm |93 of the ten transfer paw] i533, |93 corresponding to said totalizer wheel. This causes the other arm |91 of said pawl to move out of the path of the pin |83 of the gear l30 or the next higher order. During this rocking movement or the ten transfer pawl the pin |99 which was in engagement with the recess 20| in lever 205 is moved into the recess 203, spring 2|| locking the pawl in this position. 
 When the actuator wheels are moved through the additional tooth at the end of the return stroke, this movement is'imparted to all of the gears 13| but, for each order in which no tens transfer ls to take place, the gear |3i is locked against the additional tooth movement by the engagement of its pin |83 with the end of the tens transfer pawl |91 of the next lower order, and the spring is tensioned as the gear |30 moves a step further than the associated gear |30. In those transmission gears in which a tens transfer is to take place the arm |91 of the ten transfer pawl of they next lower order has been rocked out of the path of pin |83 and the gear |30 partakes in the rotation of its associated gear i3| through the addition step or one-tooth displacement, thus effecting a tens transfer to the associated totalizer wheel. Consequently, at the end of the return stroke of the machine, gears |30, |3| in which ten transfer has taken place are not in starting position. The restoring of said gears into starting position is elfected at the beginning of the next machine stroke ln the following mann-er. 
 :immediately atthe beginning of the rotation of the driving shai't lol) during the next machine stroke arm 2.2i rocks catch in counter-clockwise direction (see Fig. l0) causing lever i222" to be rocked in the same direction. Thereby lint: 
 2.3i is moved downwardly rocking bell-crank lever 39 in clockwise direction. This movement transferred by link 2&3 and arm to shaft itl which is rocked in clockwise direction as seen ln Figs. 3 and 4 and in counter-clockwise direction as seen in Fig. 5. Thereby the curved end of restoring arm 2|3 secured to said shaft |9| presses down pin |83 and simultaneously rod 2 releases locking lever 205 which by means of spring 2li rocks the ten transfer pawl |93, |91 in counterclockwise direction as seen in Fig. 4 and in clockwise direction as seen in Fig. 5 causing pin |59 on said paw] to move from recess 203 into recess 20| and' arm |31 of the pawl to lock pin |83. Now all transmission gears |30, |3| as well as all other ten transfer members are restored to starting position. 
 Fig. 15 illustrates how a ten transfer mechanism of conventional type disclosed in the Burroughs Patent No. 594,963 can easily be applied to the present machine. Parts in this figure and be released which arm influenced intermediary of shoulder 392. By 
-, trolled by the gear |52 in Figs. 4, and 6 vwhich have the same fobiect and operation are designated by the 'same reference numerals. 
 The transmission gears |30 and |3| are shaped as sectors connected with each other by the spring and by the pin and slot connection |83, |85 as in the' previous embodiment. Here the arms |93 and 91 of the ten transfer pawl are formed as separate parts and pivoted on shaft |9|. The projection 25| on arm |93 cooperates with a recess in a. stop member 390 on locking lever 205 fulcrumed at 209. Spring 2|| tends to keep stop member 390 into engagement with the projection Arm |91 is influenced by a spring 39| which tends to keep the arm in engagement with a shoulder 392 on lever 205. Another spring 393 tends to keep arm |93 in raised position. A rod 394 engages recesses in the arms |93 and |91 to control the movements thereof. Arms 2|5 supporting between them the returning rod 2|1 is fixed to shaft 209 instead of shaft |9| as in the previous embodiment. The 
mechanism for returning the ten transfer mech-V anism to initial position is the same as in the previous embodiment except that arm 245 is fixed to shaft 209 instead of to shaft |9|. 
 When the totalizer wheels pass from nine to zero, the tooth |81 or |89 will abut against the trip |95 to rock the transfer arm |93. Thereby the projection 25| will be disengaged from stop member 390 which causes locking lever 205 tc by spring 2| |v slides along the projection 25| and moves arm |91 from engagement with pin |83 through the this means the tooth sector is allowed to move one additional step, whereby the ten transfer is performed. 
 When at the beginning of the forward stroke link 231 is drawn downwardly as described above, this movement is transferred by bell-crank lever 239 and link 2.43 to. arm 245 which is rocked in counter-clockwise direction together with arms 2|5. Thereby the returning rod 2l1 rocks lever 205 in counter-clockwise direction. When during this movement. stop member 390 slides from the Aextreme point of projection 25| on the transf er arm |93 this arm |93 is raised by spring 393, so that the projection 25| can snap into the recess in the stop member 390. Arm |91 is returned to its initial position by means of spring 39| upon the gear |3| having been turned one tooth and the pin |83 has moved past the lever, which is eected during the next forward stroke when the transmissiongear |3| is set by the actuator' wheel 34. 
 Figs. 16, 17 and 18 .illustrate how a ten .trans-V fer mechanism of another conventional type disclosed in Patent No. 1,853,053 can be easily ap plied t'o the present machine. l 
 This transfer mechanism includes a plurality of toothed -transfer segments 400 pivoted on a shaft 40| carried by side plates 402 (see Fig. 17), 
there being one transfer segment for each pair of toothed gears |52, |56. The transfer segment 400 is normally held in the position shown in Fig. 16 by the engagement of a lateral lug 402 on an arm 403 of the segment in a notch 404in a bell-crank detent 405 which is pivoted on a shaft 406 and urged in clockwise direction by the I spring 401. The bell-crank detent 405 is conof next lower order than the one with which the transfer segment engages. An arm 408 of the detent 405 extends above a pivoted tripping pawl 4|0 having a tooth-like projection 4|| adapted to be engaged by a broad 1 1 tooth 4 |2on` the gear |52. The tripping pawl 4|0 is pivoted'on a shaft 4|4 carried by the frame bridges |60 of the totalizer so that the pawl moves with the totalizer as it is moved into and out of engagement with the transmission gears |30, and it is urged in a counter-clockwise direction by a spring 4|5, one end-of which is .connected to the tail of the pawl and the other end of which is connected to a latch 4|6 pivoted on the spindle |58. A lateral projection 420 is formed on the pawl 4|0 forengagement with'a shoulder 42| on the latch r4|6 which latches the pawl in raised position under certain conditions hereinafter explained. 
 For the purpose of carrying when the totalizer is performing .addition the transfer segments 400 are normally urged in a clockwise direction by springs 422 connected at one end to the arms 403 of the segments and at their other ends to a rod 423 carried by a cross bar 424 of a bail 425 pivoted as at 426. 
 A restoring bail for the segments is provided comprising a cross shaft 428 carried by arms 430 (see Fig. 17) pivoted on a rocking yoke 43|, 432 as at 433, said yoke being -fixed to a rock shaft 434 pivoteddn the side arms 402. This bail moves in slots 435 in the side plates 402 and between the extending arms 436 of the transfer segment from the position between the narrow opening between said arms to the wider opening between them. As it moves to the right it engages the upper arm 436 of the segment and cams it counter-clockwise to normal position, the parts being proportioned so that the segment is moved su'iciently to ensure that the detent 405will catch on the lug 402. 
 When one of the gears |52 is rotated from its 9 position to its 0 position the wide tooth 4|2 lon the gear engages the projection 4|| on the tripping pawl 4|0 and cams it upwardly to a position in which the pawl is latched in place by the latch 4|\6 which moves the shoulder 42| beneath the lug 420. When the totalizer is moved upwardly out of engagement with the transmission gears |30 it carries the tripping pawl 405 with it and the upper side of the pawl, engaging the arm 408, moves the detent 405 counter-clockwise and releases the transfer segand 17 in the wide space between the arms 436 Y of the transfer segment which permits the segment to turn on its pivot 40| without interference from the restoring bail. The bail 428 acts as a. limit stop for the segment to limit its movement to an amount just sufficient to move its gear one tooth.` As the bail moves to the left, it contacts the ends of all the latches 4|6 and swings them out of engagement with the lugs 420 on the tripping pawls 405, whereupon these pawls arel restored to normal position by the springs 4|5. 
 The transfer mechanism is restored to normal when the totalizer is next moved into engagement withvthe transmission gears |30. As this movement occurs the bail 428 is moved to the right in Fig. 16 and it .engages the upper arms