Cross-adding accounting machine and programing means therefor 
US-2244241-A
Ibm
1941-06-03
https://patents.google.com/patent/US2244241A/en
.J. W: BRYCE June 3, 19 41. 
CROSS-ADDING ACCOUNTING MACHINE AND PROGRAMING MEANS THEREFOR Filed Oct. 1, 1937 7 Sheets-Sheet l ATTORNEY \7 June 3, 1941. J. w. BRYCE CROSS-ADDING ACCOUNTING MACHINE AND PROGRAMING MEANS THEREFOR '7 sheets-shes 2 Filed Oct. 1. 1937 FIG. 2. 
FIG. 3. 
lNVENTOR ATTORNEY & 
 Eune 3, 1941. w, BRYCE 2,244,241 
CROSS-ADDING ACCOUNTING MACHINE AND MEANS THEREFOR Filed Oct. 1, 1937 7 Sheets-Sheet 5 INVENTOR w Q LL. I BY ab ATTORNEY 9 June 3, 1941. ,1. w. BRYCE V CROSS-ADDING ACCOUNTING MACHINE AND PROGRAMING MEANS THEREFOR Filed Oct. 1, 1937 7 Sheets-Sheet 4 ATTORNEY 5 .o' L u. 
J. W. BRYCE June 3, 1941. 2,244,241 
CROSS-ADDING ACCOUNTING MACHINE AND PROGRAMING MEANS THEREFOR- Filed Oct. 1, 19,37 7 Sheets-Sheet 5 ATTORNEYJ J. w. BRYCE- 2,244,241 
CROSS-ADDING ACCOUNTING MACHINE AND PROGRAMING MEANS THEREFOR June 3, 1941. 
Filed Oct. 1, 1937 7 Sheets-Sheet 6 Z TNVE/lyN/TQR 1 TTO RN EY 5 Patented June 3, 1941 CROSS-ADDING ACCOUNTING MACHINE AND PROGRAMING MEANS THEREFOR James W. Bryce, Glen Ridge, N. J., assignor. to International Business Machines Corporation, New York, N. Y., a corporation of New York Application October 1, 1937, Serial No. 166,820 
 7 Claims. 
 This invention relates to improvements in cross-adding machines and more particularly to suchmachines of the record controlled and record making type. Cross-adding machines are now in general use and their construction is such that there may be some diversity in the different calculations which can be performed by the machine. The extent of diversity of calculations which such form of machines are capable of performing is, in a measure. dependent upon the number of machine cycles available for successive transfer of amounts from accumulator to accumulator and the number of problems also depend, to a certain extent, upon the number of operating initiating controls and entry and transfer directing controls which are provided. Heretofore in previous commercial machines the construction was such that there were only a certain number of machine cycles available for transferring operations. The entry of transfer directing controls were al o to a considerable extent limited. 
 The present invention has for its general objects the provision of a machine which is very much more flexible in the variety of cross-adding operations which can be performed by the machine and the flexibility of the machine for the performing of different calculations is under the control of the operator instead of being initially built in the machines at the factory. 
 A further object of the present invention is to provide a construction aflording a greater number of cross-adding results than obtainable heretofore. 
 A further object of the present invention resides in the provision of novel programing means for cross-adding machines. Such programing means will enable the operator to program the sequence of transfers and to selectively route the transfers from any selected accumulator to. any other selected accumulator and to also permit the selective transfer of such amounts either additively or subtractively. 
 A further object of the present invention resides in the provision of controls to automatically terminate transfer cycles selectively after any cycle at the will of the operator and without manual intervention and to provide other machine controls which will thereupon come into action to re-initiate a new calculation pertaining to a new record, 
 A further object of the present invention resides in an accounting machine with accumulating means capable of being reset during the cycle in which the complement of amounts initially standing therein are being derived therefrom and entered into another accumulator. 
 A further object of the present invention is to provide a cross-adding machine of a simple control means in the form of a programing plugboard with programing and selecting controls controlled thereby which will-enable the operator to select at will the source or sources of a transfer entry on a particular cycle, the destination or destinations of such entry and the sign or signs of such entry. 
 A further object of the present invention resides in the provision of a programing control for a cross-adding machine wherein the succession of cycles may be selected at will by the operator. 
 A further object of the present invention resides in a form of selective control for a crossadding machine in which a single operator manipulable element such as a plug connection is adapted to effect or render effectiv all of the desired selections, viz. the source of a transferred entry, the destination of a. transferred entry and the sign of a transferred entry and the cycle ing machine wherein transfer of amounts may be effected from any of a plurality of selected accumulators to any of a selected plurality of other accumulators and wherein transfers may be made in one cycle or on successive cycles or with multiple transfers in the same cycle. 
In the drawings: 
 Figure 1 shows a somewhat diagrammatic view of the various units of the machine and of the driving mechanism therefor; 
 Fig. 2 is a sectional view taken through the card handling and reading section of the machine; 
Fig. 3 is a cam timing diagram; 
 Figs. 4a, 4b, 4c and 4d, taken together and arranged vertically in the order named, show the wiring diagram of the machine; and I Fig. 5 is an enlarged detail .view of the plugboard showing I the printed legends appearing thereon. This view is an enlarged view of the plugboard section which is shown somewhat in reduced scale on the circuit diagram. 
 The machine to which the present invention is shown applied is of a type well known in the art and no detailed mechanical description of the same is necessary. Reference, however, may be had to United States patents to Daly, No. 2,045,437 and Daly et 81., No. 2,088,408, for details of operation and for an explanation of the mechanical parts, card handling and reading mechanisms, accumulators, accumulator drives, punching devices, etc. 
 The machine, however, is generally shown in Fig. 1 wherein similar reference numerals are used to correspond to the showing on the circuit diagram. The machine comprises four accumulators, designated A, B, C and D. These are driven in the customary manner. A single impulse emitter l is provided, driven in the customary manner from the main drive shaft. There is also the usual impulse distributor I I and cam contacts CC3, CC8, CC9 and CC-lll. 
. These are driven in the manner indicated in Fig. 
1. Ten FC cam contacts are provided driven in the manner shown in Fig. 1. FC-I, FC-6, FC-'|, FC--8, FC-ll, FC-l'l, FC-l8, FCI9, FC-- and FC--2I are timed as shown in the timing diagram (Fig. 3). 
 The machine includes the customary punching mechanism which is shown in dotted lines on Fig. 1 and which is like the corresponding punch of the Daly patent above referred to. The customary electro-mechanical relay section is dispensed with in the present machine, inasmuch as the multi-contact relays are a purely electrical type. 
 In lieu of providing individual reset controls 'on the various accumulators, a single reset control is provided to call into action a reset shaft which, when rotated, resets all of the accumulators concurrently, i2 shows such reset shaft and this shaft is brought into rotation upon energization of the reset magnet i3. The reset drive is obtained in the customary manner from the customary shaft l4 and the customary one-revolution clutch generally designated i5 is adapted to connect the shaft i2 to shaft l4 when accumulator reset is desired. Two reset controlled contacts l6 and I! are provided. Contacts i8 and I1 both close upon reset. 
 The machine of the present invention employs stepping switches for controlling the programing of cycles. These are of a type well known in the telephone art and reference may be had to United States patent to Bohlman, No, 1,569,450, which shows and describes a switch of this type. Such switches include a motor magnet which upon energization and de-energization advances a wiper or wipers step by step over a contact bank or banks. They are provided with a release magnet which when energized, allows the wipers to return to normal position under the power of a spring which is wound up upon step by step advance of the wiper. Such stepping switches are customarily provided with so-called oif nor- Cam contacts h arm or wiper is in normal position and which open up in other than normal positions of the switch arm. The stepping switch is also provided with another pair of contacts which are open with the switch arm in normal position and and in fact concurrent transfers into two accumulators may be made from two other accumulators in the same cycle or from one accumulator into a plurality of other accumulators. Amounts can also be transferred from accumulator to accumulator either positively or negatively. Suitable control means is provided to select whether a particular transfer is to be of negative or positive character. The machine is intended to operate with one or a plurality of successive transfer cycles after the entry of amounts to provide one or a plurality of successive transfers from accumulator to accumulator. The accumulators further may be used repeatedly in carrying out computations which involve a succession of transfers. The number of different types of computations which the machine is capable of performing is very large. Some typical types will be explained in more detail hereinafter. 
 Generally, as a preliminary to a computation, the operator determines certain sets of facts. First there is a determination from which accumulator or accumulators the amounts are to be derived on each transfer cycle with the computation. There is then a determination of the remaining accumulator or accumulators into which amounts are to be transferred. There is then a further determination of the type of transfer whether it is to be positive or negative. Such determinations are made by the operator before setting up the controls of the machine for any given calculation and further such determinations are made by the operator for each machine cycle. There are also certain rules which the operator must take into account in setting up the controls. These rules follow from the structural limitations and capabilities of the accumulators and may be listed as follows: 
 1. Only one entry may be made into one accumulator in one step. 
 2. An entry must not be made to an accumulator from which a transfer is being made in the same step, subject to rule 3. 
 3. An amount may be transferred from one accumulator to another and also reentered into the first accumulator in the same step, provided that the amount is entered into both accumulators additively or subtractively. 
 4. The plugging made for each step must have no connection in common with any other step or must be identical with that for another step. A simple illustration will explain the foregoing. 
 Assume terms A, B, C and D are entered into the respective accumulators. Assume that on the first transfer cycle A is to be transferred to B positively and C to D positively. In this case A and C are the source accumulators and Band D are the destination accumulators. The signs of transfer in each case are positive. For, the next step in the calculation the sum of A and B standing in the B accumulator is to be added to the C and D sum standing in the D accumulator. In this event the source accumulator is B, the destination accumulator is D and the sign of the transfer is again positive. Further the transfer cycle is the second transfer cycle. Having thus ascertained the general steps of the computation, the succession of steps, the signs involved in the steps and the routing of the transfer entries, the operator is ready to plug up the machine and condition the'controls for the desired calculation. To do this the operator utilizes the novel programing plugboard which plugboard is connected with the respective machine controls so that by merely plugging up this plugboard the machine can be Dre-set to perform a calculation involving a great multiplicity of steps and a possible great multiplicity of successive transfers. The plugboard is provided with legends which guide the operator in setting it up. 
By the use of the plugboard of the instant in- I vention it is possible by a single plug connection to condition the controls of the machine, first according to source of the transferred entry, second according to destination of an entry to be transferred, third according to sign of the transferred entry and fourth according to the cycle in which the transfer is to take place. The operator does not have to consider separate controls for all of these functions, but merely places one plug connection in place as directed by the legends on the plugboard and this serves to bring all of the controls into operation in the proper relation and at the proper time in the sequence of transfers. When the machine is in use the plugboard remains plugged for a scrim of computations of a run and after each computation pertaining to a given record is completed, the 
identical computation is performed pertaining to the following record. 
The plugboard will now be generally described. 
 Generally the plugboard arrangement'of the present machine comprises a plugboard which may be considered. to have three main sect-ions. The first section is the section for directing and routing the original entries from the record into the accumulators. The third section is a section provided for routing amounts from the accumulators with result amounts therein to.the punching apparatus. Such first and third section are sections customarily used in machines of this class. Intermediate the first section and the third section a novel form of board, termed a programing board" is provided. This section is divided into various steps. Each step corresponds to a machine cycle adaptable for transfer of amounts after the amounts have been originally entered into the accumulator. A multiplicity of such sections are shown and if there is plugging in that section a certain transfer operation will take place during that step or cycle which is related to the section. The programing board in addition to being divided into sections is provided with multiple sockets in each section to permit diverse operations to be performed. Taking a particular section there are a number of sockets at the top bearing a common legend such as +A. These sockets relate to the accumulator from which an amount is to be transferred and also have a sign characteristic as designated by the preceding the symbol. It will be noted in Fig. 5 there are four +'A sockets and just below them are four sockets with similar reference characteristics a, b, c and d. These sockets are the designation sockets and relate to the accumulator to which a transfer is to be effected. For example, if in the first step section a plug connection is made from a +A socket to the d socket, there will be a transfer of the amount in the A accumulator to the D accumulator and such transfer will be made positively and it will also be effected in the first step or first transfer cycle following the entry cycle. On the other hand if a like connection from +A to d was made in the step two section, 
this transfer of the A amount positively to the D accumulator would be made in the second transfer cycle and not in the first. On the other hand if on the first step a connection was made from the A sockets to the d socket, the amount standing in the A accumulator would be transferred negatively to the D accumulator and such transfer would take place during the first step following the entry cycle. Assuming now that plug connections are made in the first step section and no plug connections whatsoever were made in the third step section, the machine would then proceed and make the successive calculations required for the first step and for the second step. The machine controls then would come into action at the end of the second step and automatically detect the fact that no calculation whatsoever was set up for the following third step. Under this condition the machine controls would terminate transfer cycles and initiate recording, followed by reset and bring about a card handling operation for entering items from a further record card in the run. 
 From the foregoing it will be apparent that the programing plugboard enables the operator of the machine to selectively set the machine to compute according to the sign plus or minus for the desired calculations for any term or terms and the operator can selectively set the programing plug-board to derive an amount from any accumulator as selected by the operator and to enter the amount in any of the other accumulators as selected by the operator. 
 The programing board is also multiplied to permit concurrent transfer operations to be brought about in the same cycle, that is to say, an amount can betransferred from A to B when another amount is being transferred from C to D, or from A to B and A to C concurrently, etc. Any desired transfer can be made at the will of the operator except the machine should not be plugged up to attempt to enter two different amounts concurrently into the same accumulator, and further the machine should not be'plugged up to enter an amount into the one accumulator while the same receiving accumulator is controlwhich drives a D. C. generator 2|. 
ling the transfer of an amount to another accumulator. 
Circuit diagram With pre-punched cards in the card magazine the operator closes switch 20 (Fig. 4d) providing current supply for the main driving motor Z, This D. C. generator supplies direct current to buses 22 and 23. The start key is now depressed to close start key contacts 24 and complete a circuit from D. C. bus 22, through relay coil M, through start key contacts 24, relay contacts G-I in the position shown, through cam contacts FC2 to the 23 side of the line. A stick circuit is established through contacts M-2, and through cam contacts FC8. Relay contacts M-l (Fig. 4c) are also closed and a circuit is established through contacts F-|, through the card feed clutch magnet 25 (see also Fig. 1), through cam contacts FC6, through the stop key contacts 26, through relay contacts M-l, through the punch contacts Pil now closed and back to the other side of the line. As is customary in machines of this type the start key must be held depressed for the first four machine cycles in starting up on a run or alternatively, it may be depressed and released and then depressed a second time. Starting is prevented until the feed rack of the punch is in the right hand position, this being provided for by theusual P-| contacts. The first complete card feed cycle on starting up will advance the first card to the position in which the-card will brushes generally designated 21 (see Figs. 2 and 40). 
be about ready to pass under the main sensin At the beginning of the second card feed cycle the card traverses the brushes and the mounts from the card are entered respectively into their related accumulators. It will be under-' stood that one or more entries can be made from the card and as here shown four accumulators are provided adapted to receive concurrently four separate entries from the card. With card lever latch contacts 3'! (Fig. 4d) become latched closed in the usual manner providing current supply for punch driving motor Z-2. The card now advancesendwise through the punch in the customary manner. 
 For purposes of explanation, it will be assumed that it is desired to take four separate entries from a card and to add all of these entries into one final result. For simplicity of excontacts 28 closed, relay coil H (Fig. 4d) will be planation the different amounts will be given the same reference character as the accumulator into which the amounts are entered from the card. 
"I'hus the problem will be assumed to be ing upon the number of entries to be madeplug connections are made at this plugboard to the accumulator Plug sockets SIA, IIB, IIC and SID. For purposes of the present description it will be assumed that the amounts are to be entered" in all four accumulators. The circuits from the accumulator plug sockets 3 IA, etc. extend through a cable 32 (Figs. 4a and 4b) and flow to the accumulator magnets A, NBJSC and 33D, passing through the contacts a of a' multi-contact relay having'a relay coil I4. The purpose of the relay contacts Ila is to cut of! the circuit to the entry plugboard after the amounts have been manner previously described. Then upon closure of cam contacts FC-i! (Fig. 4d) a circuit is established to energize the relay coil 34. It will be understood that after the entry or entries are made into the accumulators, this relay coil 34 will become de-energized so that all circuits to the entry plugboard are interrupted. During the operation hand initiating control is cut oil in the usual manner, that is, at the beginning of the second card feed cycle the closure of cam contacts mil (Fig. 4d) will cause energization of relay coil G. With relay coil G energized, the three-blade contacts G-i will be shifted to reverse position interrupting the circuit to the start key contacts 24 but maintaining the circuit to the FC-i cam contacts. With G energized, contacts 0-2 close and establish a stick circuit for coils G and H through either the FC2 contacts or the card lever contacts 2|. As is customary in machines of this type, it may be noted that the making time of cam contacts FO-2 overlaps the time when the card lever contacts 28 open between cards. Relay coils G and H are maintained energized during transfer cycles, since contacts FC-I are closed during such cycles. The card ultimately passes to the receiving position in the punch, closing contacts 35 (Fig-4c) energizlng relay coil F and shifting F--l to reverse position. As is customary the punch contacts P-l, P-I and P5 are now closed. With P-S closed, X will be energized and the K-l contacts will be closed. With punch contacts P3 closed, the punch clutch magnet 38 will be energized upon closure of cam contacts CC3, the circuit being through'K-l, P-4 to 36, 00-3, through F4 in the shifted position. The punch motor A+B+C+D. For this type of operation, the following plug connections are made. At the entry plugboard connections will be made from the brush sockets 21, respectively, to the IIA sockets, 3IB sockets, liC sockets and SID sockets. This will provide for the entry of the amounts into the respective accumulators A, B, C and D from the card. 0n the programing section of the plugboard, a plug connection for step one will be made from a socket +A to b. This connection +Ab thus made and identified I +Ab will signify that on the first transfer cycle following the en.. 
7 try cycle as designated byI there will be a transfer of the amount standing in accumulator A in a positive manner to the B accumulator. "b" signines the receiving accumulator. During the first transfer cycle it is also desired to transfer 7 the amount standing in the C accumulator to the D accumulator. Accordingly, a plug connection is made as follows: I +Cd. This plugging provides for a transfer of the C amount to the D accumulator on the first transfer cycle. At the completion of the first transfer cycle A-l-B will be standing in the B accumulator and C+D will stand in the D accumulator. It is then desired to get the sum of A+B transferred over into the A- accumulator. For this purpose for the second transfer step, a plug connection is made as follows: II +Bd. This plugging will bring about the transfer of the amount from the B accumulator to the D accumulator in a positive manner. Plugging is also provided from final output sockets "D to sockets 39 which connect to the punch magnets to provide for controlling these punch magnets so as to punch the final result D back on the record card. 
 For simplicity of explanation, the relay which is called into operation for properly routing transfers will have reference numeralswhich correspond to the plugging which allows energimtion of the relay. Thus on a transfer from A to B positively, the relay which would be energized, would be +Ab (Fig. 4c). 0n the plugboard, in addition to plus plug sockets there are also provided negative sockets so designated by the minus sign preceding the reference numeral, thus -A. 
 For controlling current supply to the various sections of the programing plugboard at different transfer cycles relays I, 2, 3, I, 5, 8 to I9 are pro- .vided. The plug sockets for relays I to II in clusive are not illustrated on Fig. 5, since their relation and wiring will be readily understood from the wiring of the other relays illustrated. The number of these relays correspond to the transfer cycle in which it becomes energized. 
Thus I would signify that the relay is energized Stepping switch and programing for cycle control in the Bohlman United States Patent No. 1,569,-. 
450, previously referred to. This stepping switch includes the customary motor or stepping magnet 42 and release magnet Ii. Contacts 40a are provided, which are closed when the switch is in normal position and open when the switch is in on normal position. Contacts 401: are open when the switch is in normal position and closed at all other positions. Switch or wiper 43 when in normal position isin circuit with a contact connected to relay coil II. One step of advance of the switch arm 42 will connect relay coil l in circuit, the next step relay coil 2 in circuit and so on. During the entry cycle switch 42 remains in the normal position as shown. During such entry cycle which precedes the transfer cycle. contacts G--4 become closed upon the energization of relay coil G. At about the end of the entry cycle, contacts FC-l'| close and a circuit path is established as follows: From line 23, through FOI l, G4, through the now closed 440 contacts to motor magnet 42 and back to the other side of the line. This will step the switch 42 forward one step of advance and establish a circuit traced as follows: From line 22, through relay contacts 49d now closed. through the switch 42, through the contact pertaining to the I relay, through such relay to the other side of the line 22. Transfer operations as will hereinafter be explained now ensue. 
 During the entry cycle, which precedes the transfer cycle, contacts G-2 (Fig. 4c) become closed energizing relay coil GG which remains energized by virtue of contacts GGI, the stick circuit going back to line through the FC--2| contacts. With relay GG energized during the entry cycle, contacts (30-! (Fig. 4d) become closed. At the end of the entry cycle cam contacts FCI8 become closed. Toward the end of the first transfer cycle cam contacts CC-IO close, current then being permitted to flow from line 22, through FC|8, GG -S now closed, through the now closed 40b contacts, through the motor magnet 42 to the other side of the line. This will step the switch forward for the second transfer step and connect relay coil 2 in circuit. A similar action will occur for each successive step of transfer which is required. when all transferring operations are complete a release magnet ll becomes energized and with this magnet energized the switch arm 42 returns back to normal position under spring action in the customary way. Control of the release magnet is provided for by contacts 491) which are closed in a manner to be subsequently described by the energization of relay magnet 49. 
 During restoration of the stepping switch, current supply to the switch 43 is prevented by means of contacts 48d which are opened up during the releasing step, 
It will be assumed that the four amounts arev entered into various accumulators in the manner previously explained and the first transfer cycle is to be initiated. Referring to Fig. 4d, with relay contacts G4 closed, upon the energization of G in the manner previously explained and upon closure of cam contacts FCI'| a circult will be completed from the 23 line, through the stepping switch contacts 40a now in the position shown, completing a circuit to energize stepping or motor relay 42. Energization 'of relay 42 brings about one step of advance movement to stepping switch 43. W42 having advanced one step will. connect relay coil I in circuit. Energization of relay coil I (Fig. 4d) will bring about ensures: contacts la and provide current supply for the +A plug socket, through-relay coil 44 (Fig. 4c). The complete circuit will now be traced, from line 22, through, through contacts la now closed, to a +A socket, via plug connection from such socket to a b socket, through relay coil +Ab and back to the other side of the line 22. Energization of relay coil +Ab will close the multi-contacts of this relay which are shown to the right of the dotted line coils on Fig. 4a. 
 The various accumulators A, B, C and D are provided with readouts designated ARO, BRO, CR0 and BBQ. These readouts are of the customary dual type. One section of such readouts is wired in direct manner to an emitter l0 and the other section of the various readouts is complementarily wired to .theemitten It will be understood that there are two readout devices for each accumulator order and one of these is wired to read out the nines complement of the amount standing on the corresponding order wheel and that the other of these is wired to read out directly the value standing on said wheel. By the use of such a construction it is possible to concurrently derive an amount from the common lines generally designated 48, which lines it will be seen extend to the 333 accumulator magnets. In this way the amount standing in A is transferred additively into 13. During the same first transfer cycle there is also a transfer of theamount standing in.C to accumulator D. This transfer entry is permitted because of the energizatlon of relay +Cd which allows impulses to flow from CRO to the group of linesgenerally designated 41, which extend to the D accumulator (see Fig. 4b). At the end of the first transfer cycle there is an initiating control to initiate the operations pertaining to the second transfer cycle. This initiating control will now be described. 
 At the end of. the entry cycle cam contacts FC--l8 become closed and at the end of the first transfer cycle, contacts CC-Jil become closed, current is then permitted to flow from line 23, through FC-l8, through G0 5, through CC- lfl, through the now closed contacts 40b to again energize the stepping magnet 42. gization of the stepping magnet advances the switch 43 an additional step and connects relay coil 2 in circuit. With relay coil .2 energized, relay contacts 2a close and remain closed, during the second transfer cycle and such contacts provide current supply to the +13 sockets on thesecand step section of the programing plugboard and thus energizes the +Bd relay. With relay. 
This enercomplete final result of the sum of A, B, C and D now stands in the D accumulator and the machine ls ready to record this amount upon the record from which the items were derived. 
 Before describing the recording of this final result upon the record it may be explained that following the second transfer cycle mentioned above, the machine attempts to initiate another cycle and attempts to connect up the third step section of the programing plugboard for control of machine operations. Such third step section of the plugboard is, however, wholly unplugged and this unplugged status of this section provides a control through a test circuit to terminate transfer cycles automatically. This terminating control will now be described. 
 Following the second transfer cycle described above, the stepping switch 43 is again advanced upon closure of cam contacts CC-lll and the 3 relay becomes energized. Referring now to Fig. 40, it will be noted that relay coil 44 is in the input circuit to the programing plugboard and under the condition just described with relay 3 energized while there will be an input circuit established to the third step section of the pro 49a, relay contacts 50a, to the other side of the line. Upon energization of relay coil 49, relay contacts 49b close and establish a circuit to energize release magnet 5|. Contacts 4911 open and break the circuit to the relays 2 to I 8 inclusive, during the time switch 43 is moving to home position. Energization of release magnet 5| restores the stepping switch 43 to normal zero position (the position shown). The energization of relay coil 49 also closes relay contacts 490 (Fig. 4d) establishing a circuit energizing punch control relay T. Such relay coil T corresponds to the B relay coil of theDaly patent. The T relay remains energized by a stick circuit extending through stick contacts T-2 and contacts K-4 now closed. The energization of relay coil T closes contacts T-l (Fig. 4c) and establishes a circuit in the usual way to the readout strip of the punch. The plug sockets 39 of the readout strip are connected by plug connections to sockets 38D so that punching of the final result in D proceeds in the usual way by the selective energization of the punch magnets 52. These punch magnets it will be understood are selectively energized under control of the DB0 readout. During result punching emitter I9 is isolated from the circuit by the opening of relay contacts T-3 and during result punching the punch magnets 52 are connected to the transverse buses extending to the various readouts by the closure of relay contacts T4l3 (Fig. 4a). The energization of relay coil T during result punching also closes relay contacts Tl4--29 thereby connecting the readout circuits to the plug sockets 38A, 38B, 38C and 38D. By the provision of the construction just described the use of an extra readout section for controlling punching is obviated. 
Referring now to Fig. 4d when the stepping switch 43 re-assumes a home position (i. e. the 
.K-2 close and a circuit is established from line 23 through FC-i8, through K2, through L-l now closed to energize reset magnet l3. With l3 energized all of the accumulators are reset to zero. During reset, contacts l5 and I! become closed, l6 upon closing energizing relay coil L, which upon energizing opens the L-I contacts to prevent repetition of reset. Relay coil L has a stick circuit through L-2 and the punch control contacts,P--2. Contacts l1, upon closing energize relay coil M, the circuit being from line 23, through FC-I9, through GG-2 now closed, through ll, through M to line 22. Energization of relay coil M initiates a new card feed cycle upon closure of contacts Ml in the manner previously described. Relay coil M has a stick circuit through stick contacts M2, the circuit being completed to line through FC-! in the usual way. 
 It will be understood that the illustrated embodiment affords a construction in which nineteen or less transfer cycles may be eifected. It the entire nineteen transfer cycles were used, at the end of the last transfer cycle, the switch 43 would be advanced to the unwired last contact. Under this condition all of the relays I, 2, 3,. etc., will remain de-energized and their a" contacts will remain open. Accordingly, there will be no energization of relay magnet 44 (Fig. 4c) and upon closure of CC-8 (Fig. 4d) relay 49 would be energized terminating operations and bringing about restoration of the stepping switch to normal position in the manner previously explained. 
 Another calculation will now be described involving subtraction. Let it be assumed that the operator of the machine desires to calculate the following two problems: 
A+BD:Rl 
as one result, and 
BC+D Rr"-2 as another result. R-l and R-2 are each to be punched back on to the record. The entry circuits from the brushes will be set up as before, that is. entry circuits will be provided by plugging from 21 to MA, MB, 3IC and 3ID. The programing plugboard for the various steps will be plugged up as follows: 
 In the first step section a plug connection will be made thus. +Ba. This will provide for a positive transfer of B to the A accumulator. In the second step section a plug connection will be made thus, Da. This will provide for a negative transfer from D to A and when this transfer is made, the whole result R! will be in the A accumulator. Result plugging connections will be made from sockets 33A (Fig. 4a) to the desired sockets '39 (Fig. 40). For the other computation to obtain the result Rr-2, plug connections will be made as follows: In the second step section, a connection will be made +Db. This plug connection is made in the second step because in the first step for the other computation, the amount B is being transferred to A'and therefore numerous. 
it is impossible to effect the D to B transfer until after B has been transferred to A for the R| computation. For the second computation, in the third step, a plug connection will be made Cb. The final result will be in the B accumulator and result punching will be provided for by placing plug connections from the 3813 sockets to the desired 39 sockets. 
 When subtractive transfers are effected in the instant machine such transfers are effected by reading out from the readouts, the 9's complement of the amount standing therein entering this amount into the selected accumulator and in the units position causing an elusive l to be entered in such accumulator. For providing for the entry of the elusive I, each of the various accumulators A, B, C and D is provided with an elusive l magnet 52. United States patent to Lake, No. 1,976,617, shows the manner in which an elusive one may be entered under an elusive magnet control. This magnet when energized trips the carry latch pertaining to the units order and thus causes an entry of 1- into the units order and this entry with the 9's complementary entry provides for a true complementary into the accumulator. The energization of the elusive I magnet is brought about in the following manner: Considering now the negative transfer of D to A, the Da relay will be energized. Energization of relay coil Da will close its multicontacts which include an extreme right hand contact connecting to line 53 (Fig. 4a) which extends to cam contacts CC9. The right hand contact also connects to a line 54 which, if traced. 
will be found to extend to the elusive l magnet 52A (Fig. 41)). 
 It seems unnecessary to further trace the operations for this type of problem since they are substantially the same as previously described except that different relays are energized and subtractive transfers are effected at the proper cycle time. 
 The foregoing description has traced two simple problems which the machine is adaptable for computing. which the machine is capable of computing is Several of them may be briefly al luded to without detailed circuit description with a mere reference to the cyclic times in which various events take place. 
Assume general equations as follows: 
i (AorBorCorD) =R-1 i- (AorBorCorD) i (AorBorCorD) =R-2 (AorBorCorD) and assume also a different selection of one or more terms or signs. Thus, as examples. as- 
sume 
(a) B -C)=R1 (D+A):R2 
(b) (A+C)=R1 (D+C) =R-2 The number of different problems transfer cycle or step. For problem (b) program-plugging is as follows: +Cd in the first step section and Ac in the second step section. Such plugging will provide for the positive transfer of O to the D accumulator in the first step and the negative transfer of A to the C accumulator in the second step. 
Consider new general equations as follows: 
and with a different section of one ormore terms or signs. 
As examples of the above assume two problems: 
- (a) B-C+D=R-1 A+B-D=R2 (b) A+B+C=R1 ABC=R-2 For problem (a) above, the programing plugging forthe first step would be +Ba, which would bring about the transfer of B positively to A. In the second step section,.- the plugging would be +Db and Da. +Db would bring about the transfer of D positively to the B accumulator and the Da plugging would bring about the negative transfer of D into the A accumulator. In the third step, the program-plugging would be Cb which -would negatively transfer C to the B accumulator, giving a final amount in A=to A+B-D and the final amount in B=B-C+D. 
 For problem (b) above, the program-plugging for the first step would be +Bc and +Ad and for the second step, it would be +01; and Cd. There is no entry from card to D in this problem. 
 Another typical and illustrative problem might be as follows: 
Th program-plugging for this calculation would be as follows: In the first step +Ac. This would bring about transfer of the A amount to the C accumulator. In the second step the plugging would be -Aa. This will negatively transfer the A amount back into the same accumulator and thus clear the A accumulator to zero, leaving it available for use in the succeeding steps of the computation. For the third step, the plugging would be +Ba to bring about the transfer of B positively into the now cleared A accumulator. For the fourth step the plugging would be -Da and +Db. This would bring about, during the fourth step the negativetransfer of D into the A accumulator containing the amount B and will bring about the positive amount of the D amount to the B accumulator. Then at the conclusion of the computation B-D would stand in A, B+D would stand in B, and C+A would stand in C.- 
 Another illustrative problem which the machine is capable of performing is the following 2A4B+8Cl6D=R1. In this problem the amounts on the record card would be merely A, 
vB, C and D. For this operation the plugging would be as shown in tabular form below. 
 The effect of step I is to form 23 and 2D in the corresponding accumulators. By step II, 23 is entered negatively into accumulator A to give A2B, and 2D is entered negatively into accu mulator C to give C-2D. Steps III and IV give 2(C-2D) and 4(C2D) respectively in accumulator C. The effect of step V is that the amount (J-2D) in accumulator C is entered additively n will be noted that the 'odd units in, c and!) are dealt with by entering these amounts in the accumulator A before doubling them, and that the doubling of B, the entry of 23 into the ac cumulator A and the doubling of 2D are so arranged that steps 11 and IV are identical. The rule 4. pointed out hereinabove is, however, broken for step V which differs from step I. With the circuit arrangement shown the transfer +18 to b will also take place, but this does not matter as the performance of a transfer from accumulatnr B back into itself in step V has no harmful effect. This constitutes an exception to rule 4. which may be restated as follows: 
 4. The plugging made for each step must have no connection in common with any other step or must be identical with that for another step, 
unless the unwanted transfer will have no ill effect. 
 Another typical and peculiar problem may be as follows: Where it is desired to get four different results, this being the maximum capacity of the machine herein shown. 
 With the above pluggings the sequence of transfer cycles would be as follows: On the first transfer, A would be added to C. On the second transfer D would be subtracted from B in B. In the third step A would be subtracted from D in D. On the fourth step A would be cleared to zero by adding back on this the A amommt subtractiveiy. On the fifth step the B--D amount. 
would be taken from B and entered positively in the Aaccumulator. On the last the D-A amount from n is added tothe B-D m a to give the desired final result of B-A in the A accumulator. 
 Other typical illustrative problems showing different kinds of operation which the machine is capable of performing are as follows: 
1 Problem 7 BC=R1 D+A=R-2 .Siep 88 I +Ad Cb Problem 3B-5C+D--A=R1 Step Plugging Cd +84 +0: Ad +Bb +84 +Ce Problem 3B-2A+3DC=Rl Plugging +Aa +134 +Ac Bb +Dt Cb +Dd +M Problem 2A3B+3 (D-C) :R- 1 
Step 
Step Pl ss c I n +1 8' B0 +0 +1)! III +Aa t" I8 4} VI vn +Ab +Cd +1 (B-A) =R- 1 BD=R-2 C+A=R-3 DA=R--4 Btop Pluss s +Ac -Do --Ad Ae +Bd +Da Problem (B-l-A) =R- 1 C+A=R2 DA=R3 'swp P um: 
I +Ab +Ac -.u 
 It seems unnecessary to give further examples because the number of problems is practicallyinfinite. 
 Referring, however, to the plugboard shown in Fig. 5, it will be noted that there is a break in the showing between step 6 and step l9. In practice, the plugboard would include step sections for the intermediate sections. Likewise on the wiring diagram, relay contacts la to Go only are shown and relay contacts l9a. If further step sections are provided on the plugboard, obviously the extra. relay contacts similar to la would be provided controlling the input to the other sections of the programing plugboard. 
 Summarizing, the number of cycles control is dependent upon and controlled by the number of successive sections of the plugboard which is plugged up. This extent of plugging in connection with the stepping switch 43 determines at which cycle relay coil 44 will fail to become energized and thus terminate transfer cycles. The number of times this relay becomes energized under the control of the stepping switch will determine the number of transfer cycles. 
 Relays such as +Aa, +Ba, -Aa and -Ba, according to their selective energization, determine both the source of a transfer entry and the destination of a transfer entry and also determine the sign of a transfer. The energization of these relays is again dependent upon plugging. One socket determines the source and sign of an amount to be transferred and the other plug socket determines the destination of the transferred amount. 
What I claim is: 
 1. An accounting machine comprising a plurality of accumulators, means to transfer amounts additively or subtractively from accumulator to accumulator, a plurality of selectively operable routing means for selectively routing transferred amounts from selected source accumulators to selected receiving accumulators, one set of said routing means being provided for additive transfers and another set being provided for negative transfers, a plurality of machine cycle control means for bringing said routing means into operation to enable transfer operations to be effected in a selected one of a succession of machine cycles, means for causing successive operation of said last named means in successive machine cycles, fixed wiring in the machine for routing transferred amounts from selected source accumulators through the routing means to selected receiving accumulators, each of said routing means and the fixed wiring cooperating therewith invariably routing an amount from a determined source accumulator to a determined receiving accumulator and all of routing means with the fixed wiring providing for each possible different transfer between the various source accumulators and the various receiving accumulators, a programing plugboard having different sets of sockets connected to the different machine cycle control means and other sets of sockets connected individually to each and all of the routing means, and a common single plug wire adapted upon insertion in a selected single socket of the different sets of sockets connected to the machine cycle control means and upon insertion in one of the sockets connected to a routing means to connect a machine cycle control means and a routing means for conjoint operation upon operation of the machine cycle control means, said single plug wire when selectively inserted by the operator concurrently selecting and rendering effective for subsequent action routing means for a selected source and selected destination accumulator and for a selected sign of transfer and for also selecting which one of the plurality of machine cycle control means operating in an operated selected cycle is to be effective to cause operation of the routing means for a transferring operation. 
 2. In a cross-adding machine having a plurality of accumulators provided with positive and negative readout means, and means for transferring amounts under control of said readout means, from accumulator to accumulator in one or more successive machine cycles, machine cycle control means for bringing about transferring by the transfer means in one or more successive machine cycles, a plurality of relay routing means which when selectively energized selectively route transfers from related selected accumulators to related selected accumulators, the combination wherein there are a plurality of the aforesaid machine cycle control means each related to a different successive cycle, means for causing the successive operation of said last named means in successive machine cycles. means for selecting the machine cycle control means which are to be effective whereby the machine cycles in which one or more transfers are made may be selected, said last mentioned means comprising a programing plug boardhaving a plurality of sections allotted to related different successive machine cycles, each section having sockets commonly connected to the related machine cycle control means of said plurality of machine cycle control means and sockets individually connected to related relay routing means, each section when plugged with a plug connection connecting the common sockets and a relay socket being adaptedto connect the related machine cycle control means to the related relay routing means whereby operation of the control means causes operation of the relay routing means. 
 3. The invention according to claim 1, wherein the programing plug board is made up of a plurality 'of successive sections, each section having a plurality of sockets connected to the related machine cycle control means and each section having a set of sockets individually connected to each of the routing means, said multiple section board and multiple sockets in each section enabling the operation by the insertion of a pinrality of plug connections, one only for each transfer step of a computation, to select and connect a plurality of routing means to machine cycle control means for a plurality of transfers and to also enable the operator to select the cycle time of each transfer by the machine cycle control means which is or are connected, said plurality of insertible plug wires also enabling the operator to connect and condition the machine cycle control means to cause a plurality of transfers which may be in a desired selected order of succesion or concurrence at will. 
 4. A machine according to claim 2, wherein the relay routing means includes routing means for routing transfers negatively under control of the negative readout means of the accumulators and other routing means for routing transfers positively under control of the positive readout means of the accumulators, and wherein the sockets of the programing plug board include sockets connected to the routing means for negative transfers and other sockets connected to the routing means for positive transfers whereby one or the other of said sockets when plugged with a single plug connection to one of the common sockets-may selectively determine a positive or negative transfer. 
 5. In a cross-adding machine having a plurality of accumulators and means for transferring amounts from accumulator to accumulator in one or more successive machine cycles, machine cycle control means for bringing about transferring by the transfer means in one or more successive machine cycles, a plurality of relay routing means which when selectively energized selectively route transfers from related selected accumulators to related selected accumulators; the combination wherein there are a plurality of the aforesaid machine cycle control means each related to a different successive machine and transfer cycle, means for causing operation thereof in successive machine cycles, and wherein the plurality of accumulators includea plurality of source accumulators with readouts and a plurality of receiving accumulators, each of said relay routing means having multi-contacts, fixed wiring connecting said multi-contacts to the receiving accumulatorsand to the readouts of the source accumulators, each routing relay when energized invariably connecting a determined source accumulator to a determined receiving accumulator through a portion of said fixed wiring, said difl'erent routing relays and the fixed wiring to their multi-contacts providing foreach possible diiTerent transfer between the various source accumulators and various receiving accumulators, a programing plug board arranged in multiple sections, each related to a different transfer cycle, and each section having sets of sockets commonly connected to the machine cycle control means for the related section, each section having further sockets individually connected to each of the different relay routing means, said former and latter sockets of each section when plugged with one or more plug connections in a section beingadapted during the related transfer cycle to make the related machine cycle control means effective to bring about energization of the one or more relay routing means whose sockets are plugged upon operation of said machine cycle control means. 
 6. In a cross-adding machine with a plurality of accumulators, means for transferring amounts from accumulator to accumulator, machine cycle control means for bringing about transferring by the transfer means in one or more successive transfer cycles, the combination wherein the machine cycle control means comprises a stepping switch with a plurality of stepping switch relays one for each successive transfer cycle and which relays are selectively successively energized upon each step of advance of the stepping switch, cyclically operable means for causing step by step advance of said switch, an operation determining master relay which is variably influenced to afford further transfer operations or to terminate transfer operations, means for selectively controlling said operation determining master relay under the conjoint control of the successively energized stepping switch relays and manually settable selecting means, said manually settable selecting means comprising a multisection programing plug board, having a series of successive sections, each related to a stepping switch relay and to a particular successive transfer cycle, each" section further having plug sockets which when plugged with a plug connection or connections, with the stepping switch relay pertaining to said section energized, determine a condition of the master relay to afford further transfer operations, each said section when wholly unplugged determining a terminating control condition of the master control relay, whereby the number of successive transfer cycles is determined by the number of successive sections of the programing plug board which are plugged and whereby the first unplugged section determines a suppression of transfer operations in the'related machine cycle. 
 '7. A machine according to claim 6 wherein means are provided controlled by the operation determining master relay when it is in its terminating control condition for causing the stepping switch to be restored to normal position. 
JAMES W. BRYCE.