Decimal point indicating mechanism 
US-2329218-A
nan
1943-09-14
https://patents.google.com/patent/US2329218A/en
3 Sheets-Sheet l g do 0 0 Q o m o a o o o o o o g [647 9 70 1/58 E. E. REYNOLDS DECIMAL POINT INDICATING MECHANISM Filed NOV. 29, 1940 M9 9 ma [:1 DGEIS :14 1:13 :12 1:11 
DECI 
DECI- MA L cum 1 um: um DIAL mm o INVENTOR. EUGENE E. PEY/vows BY i ATTORNEY. 
OOOOOOOOOQU OOOOOOOOO@ OOOOOOOOOQU OOOOOOOOOOG OOOOOOOOOQU OOOOOOQWOOQU OOOQQOOQme 8 H MW Sept. 14, 1943. 
 a; a r an cu m a: c5 a; //5 
Sept. 14, 1943. 
E. E. REYNOLDS DECIMAL POINT INDICATING MECHANISM Filed Nov. 29, 1940 3 Sheets-Sheet 2 INVENTOR. [UGf/VE E PEYNOLQS ATTORNE Y p 1943- E. E. REYNOLDS 2,329,218 
DECIMAL POINT INDICATING MECHANISM 5 Sheets-Sheet 5 Filed Nov. 29, 1940 W o /miozazo o, 0 1 
F8 UGEWKE. PEYNOLDS 250 FIEI]. BY a {a a ATTORNEY. 
Patented Sept. 14, 1943 a DECDHAL POINT INDICATING MECHANISM Eugene E. Reynolds, Santa Fe, N. Mex assignor to Mal-chant Calculating Machine Company; a corporation of California Application November 29, 1940, Serial No. 367,729 
. 20Claims. 
 My inventionrelates to decimal indicating devices for calculating machines and the like, and 
has particular reference to improved and simpli- A fled devices for indicating the correct position of 4 the decimal pointin a multiplication product and for indicating the correct position of the decimal point in a division quotient. 
My invention is disclosed as embodied in a commercially known Marchant calculating machine such as is substantially disclosed and claimed in the Avery Patents No. 2,211,736 dated August thirteenth, 1940, and No. 2,216,659dated October" first, 1940. Therefore, a complete calculatingmachine is not disclosed in the present aplication sinceoreierence may be had to the above patents for the details of the machine including multiplication and division control mechanisms. 
 Although the current commercially known Merchant calculating machine difiers in some details from the disclosures of theabove patents, 
the operations are fundamentally the same, and 
.it is also to be understood that the invention sion to apply these rules very infrequently and, 
therefore, are prone to forget them unless the rules ar very simple and elemental. Such methods not only consume time, because fre quent resetting of the decimal indicators is necessary, but also make P ssible serious errors on the part of the operator. 
 1 am aware that it has been previously-proposed to utilize various arrangements for connecting together the decimal indicators of calculating machines so that whenthe decimal indicators associated with factor indicators are properly positioned, the decimal indicator associated with the register upon which the answer appears automatically will be properly set without requiring mental calculation by the operator; such arrangements being disclosed in the Rechnitzer Patent No. 809,075 dated January second, 1906; the Bacon Patent No. 1,503,742 dated August fifth, 1924; and the Bley Patent No. 1,799,037 dated March thirty-first, 1931. Decimal indicating devices of the character disclosed in the application of Boyd, Serial No. 268,510 filed April 18, 1939, which require certain presetting operations by the operator in order to effect an automatic indication of the position of the decimal point in the answer have also been commercially used on the Marchant calculating machine.- 
 I am also aware that it has been proposed to utilize an arrangement such as that disclosed in the Ellerbeck application Serial No. 345,116 filed July twelfth, 1940, whereby the presetting operations required are reduced in number by the provision of means for setting an indication of the position of the decimal point in multiplication during the entry of a multiplier factor, and for then automatically indicating the position of the decimal point in the product. 
 The principal object of my invention is, therefore, to provide simplified and improved means to obviate the need for mental calculation on the part of a calculating machine operator in deter- :nining the decimal point of a product or quolent. 
 A further object of the invention is to provide a simple and easily manipulable form of decimal indicator. 
 The manner in which the above and other objects of the invention are accomplished will be readily understood on reference to the following specification when read in conjunction with the accompanying drawings wherein: 
Figure 1 is a plan view of a calculating machine Figure 6 is a transverse sectional view taken along the line 6-601 Figure 5. I 
Figure 7 is a plan view of part of the machine embodying am another modified form of the Figur 8 is a transverse sectional view taken along the line 8-8 of Figure '7. 
 The calculating machine shown in Figure 1 comprises a frame portion I I on which a carriage 250 carrying an accumulator register SIB and a counter register I800 is mounted. The carriage is capable of being denominationally shifted step by step by mechanism under control of several depressible keys, including a pair of depressible keys I405 and I406 which are provided as disclosed in the aforesaid Avery Patent No. 2,216,659 to effect multiple operations of the carriage shifting mechanism in either direction, the carriage being shifted in the direction of the arrow appearing on the depressed key. 
 Multiplication is performed as described in detail in the aforesaid Avery patents by setting the multiplicand factor in the keyboard by depression of appropriate ones of the numeral keys I00 whereupon the registration appears in keyboard or selection indicating dials I" denominationally arranged on theframe I I5. 
 To facilitate reference to the multiplicand decimal point, the usual keyboard decimal markers H3 may be employed. As is well known, the underside of each of the markers H3 is set of! in a color contrasting to that of the rest of the keyboard, so that upon rocking the finger-piece I I4 of the marker H3 located between the selected denominational orders of the multiplicand set up in the keyboard, the decimal point of the multiplicand may be readily observed. 
 The multiplier factor is entered into the machine by successively depressing the appropriate ones of a row of multiplier control keys 200I selected according tow the values of the digits of the multiplier factor. I 
 At the conclusion of the operation initiated by each such key, the carriage is automatically shifted in one direction or the other as hereinafter described. The multiplier will, when all digits have been entered, appear in the counter register I800, While the product will appear in the accumulator register 3IB. To indicate the position of the carriage, an arrow I20 is formed on the cover I 2I which is fixed relative to the frame and is directed toward the counter dial which will be actuated in that position of the carriage. 
 At the conclusion of the operation initiated by each multiplier key 200i, as noted above in describing the entire sequence of operations, the carriage 250 is automatically shifted one step in a direction determined by pre-setting of one or another of settable direction control keys I20I and I202. In usual practice, and for the purpose of the present invention, the upper key I20I is set to effect a one-step carriage shift to the left after each operation initiated by the multiplier keys. 
 The carriage is preferably, but not necessarily, shifted to the extreme rightmost position thereof at the start of a calculation. In this position the carriage decimal indicator arrow I 20 is aligned with the leftmost counter register dial I814. 
 As is well known, the number of digits following the decimal point in any' product will be equal to the sum of the number of digits following the decimal point in both the multiplier and multiplicand, and it has been the usual practice in using machines such as those disclosed in the above mentioned patents, to set the multiplier and multiplicand decimal point indicators and then set the product decimal point indicator so that the number of dials to the right thereof equals the number of dials to the right of the multiplier decimal point indicator, plus the number of dials or keyboard rows to the right of the multiplicand decimal point indicator. 
 In the operation of the above machine during division, the dividend is set up in the value keys I00 in the same manner as the multiplicand is set up, and the appropriate marker III is also arranged as previously mentioned. The add bar 800 is then depressed to add" the dividend into the accumulator register III. Thereafter the divisor is set up in the value keys I00, generally with the highest figure of the divisor directly aligned with the highest figure in the dividend appearing in the accumulator register. The division control key 910 is then depressed to effect operation of the division control mechanism in the manner described in detail in the above Avery patents, to continuously subtract the divisor from the dividend. When the remainder in the operated ordersof the accumulator is reduced to less than that of the controlling orders of the divisor, the carriage is automatically shifted to the left one step, and the process is again started automatically. 
 Here again the decimal point in the quotient may be found in accordance with prior practice by mental calculation, the difference between the number of dials to the right of the decimal point in the dividend appearing in the accumulator register and the number of dials or rows of keys in the keyboard to the right of the decimal point in the divisor equalling the number of dials to the right of the decimal point in the quotient appearing in the counter register I000. 
 My invention provides an improved form of simple device for mechanically carrying out these calculations which are necessary to determine the position of the decimal points in the answers obtained by such machines, and provides for the automatic setting and actuation of the device to the maximum extent which I have found compatible with the retention of the desired simplicity of construction. 
 In the simplest form of the present invention, a decimal bar II6 (Figures 1 and 2) is adjustably supported by a decimal slide III in the form of a clip which, in turn, is frictionally supported by, but slidable along a track III secured, as by screws 8, to the cover of the carriage 250. A decimal indicating mark or point I25 is formed on the slide II! in decimal indicating relationship with the dials of the counter register I000. 
 The bar H6 is frictionally supported by the slide IIT, but is adjustable longitudinally with respect thereto, and has an arm I30 depending therefrom and terminating in a decimal indicating mark I30' arranged in decimal indicating relationship with the accumulator register 3I8. A series of ordinally spaced and progressively distinguished numerals I3I are formed on the decimal bar I ii, the first of these numerals being ordinally spacedfrom the decimal mark I30 a distance equal to the distance between orders of register 3Il. 
 With the device so far described, it will be noted that the decimal point of a product in multiplication may be readily ascertained without the need of mental calculation, and with a minimum amount of manipulation. This is accomplished by adjusting the decimal bar II and slide III relative to each other, and to the carriage 250. 
 Assuming for the present that the stops I21 and I28, to be described hereinafter, are rendered ineffective, the bar H6 is adjusted with respect to the slide H1 until the number I3I appearing in a window II'Ia formed in the slide H1, corresponds to the number of the keyboard dials I41 or rows of keys I to the right of the multiplicand decimal point. To facilitate the correct adjustment of the decimal bar H6 relative to the slide III, a series of numbers I29 preferably are interspersed with the keyboard dials I41 to indicate the number of dials or rows of keys to the right of the aligned decimal mark- .erII3. 
 An alternative manner of correctly positioning the bar H6 with respect to the slide II! is first to move the slide II! to a position to the right of the carriage position indicator arrow I20, and half way between the dial aligned with the arrow and the register dial to the right thereof, and then to adjust the decimal bar I I6 to a position in which the accumulator decimal indicating mark I30 thereon is directly aligned with the effective decimal marker II3. 
 After the bar H6 has been adjusted-relative to the slide H1, in either of these ways, and either before, during, or after completion of multiplication, the slide H1 and bar II6 are adjusted as a unit along the track H8, until the decimal indicating mark I25 indicates the known position of the decimal point in the multiplier as it appears in the counter register I800. The decimal indicating mark I30 will thereby be positioned to indicate the location of the decimal point in the product appearing in the accumulator register 3I8. 
If it is possible to set the multiplicands of a series of successive multiplications without changing the setting of the decimal indicators II3 on the keyboard, the bar I'I6 need not be adjusted with respect to the slide II'I for each calculation, and the only readjustment required would be the adjustment of the slide II! to indicate the correct position of the decimal point in each multiplier in the counter register. This latter adjustment may also be dispensed with if it is possible and practical to so enter the multiplier in each case as to avoid necessity for readjustment of slide I II. 
 To determine the position of the decimal point of a quotient in division calculations using the above described decimal indicating device, the dividend is set up in the keyboard and the appropriate marker H3 is set as usual. Noting the numeral in the series I29 directly above the effective marker H3, the bar H6 is adjusted with respect to the slide II'I until the corresponding numeral appears in the window I'I'Ia. The slide H1 is then positioned to the right of the carriage position indicator arrow I and halfway between the dial aligned with the arrow and the dial to the right thereof. The slide II! and bar H6 will thereafter remain fixed relative to the carriage 250. 
 If the divisor then can be set up with reference to the same decimal marker II3 as was used in setting up the dividend, then the mark I on slide II! will indicate the correct position of the decimal point in the quotient. However, if thererare more, or many less digits to the left of the decimal point in the divisor than in the dividend, the position of the decimal point in the divisor must be set to the right or to the left of the former position and to indicate the position of the decimal point in the divisor, a different decimal marker I I3 is set. Under such circumstances, the position of the decimal point in the divisor as indicated from the series of numerals I29 in the manner described above, is noted, and the decimal point in the quotient, appearing in the counter I800, is read as located directly above the position of the corresponding numeral I3I on bar H6. 
 In the above mentioned multiplication and division calculation, it is preferable that the carriage be shifted to its rightmost position before starting a calculation in order to utilize the full capacity of the machine. However, it is not necessary that this be the case as the device will work equally as well regardless of the position of the carriage when starting a calculation. 
 While the above described simple form of my invention is useful alone, it is preferred to provide means under control of a pair of decimal keys I32 and I33 to effect setting of the decimal bar II6 during multiplication, thereby reducing the amount of manipulation required on the part of the operator, as well as reducing the amount of time consumed in setting the decimal indicating device. This means comprises a stop I28 which is supported on the under surface of the cover I2I by guide pins I34 and I35 extending through elongated slots I36 and I31, respectively, formed in the stop I28 so as to allow this stop to be shifted longitudinally into and out of the path of a projection I24 of the slide III extending under the cover IZI. The slot I36 is considerably wider than the diameter of the pin I34, while the slot I3! is of substantially the same width as the diameter of its pin I35. Therefore, the stop I28 is allowed to swing a limited amount about the pin I35 as a pivot. The stop I28 is, however, normally urged toward the right by a small leaf spring I38 supported by pins I39 and I40 upon the under surface of the cover I2I, and in either case extends justto the left of the arrow I20. 
 As shown in Figure 2, the cover HI and stop member I28 are curved on a radius about a rod I4I as a center, which rod is suitably journaled in brackets I42 extending from the main frame of the machine, Stop I28 is loosely pivoted at I43 to an arm I44 which is securely pinnedto the rod I4I, the pivotal connection I43 being loose enough to permit the pivotal movement of stop I28 about pin I35 as heretofore described. An arm I45, also pinned to the rod MI, is connected by means of a. link I46 to a three-arm lever I41 pivoted at I48 to a stationary bracket I49. One arm of the lever I41 pivotally supports one end of a key frame I50 of an upper decimal bar I 32, while the other end of the frame is supported by a lever I5I also pivoted to the bracket I49. A link I52 is pivotally connected between the levers I41 and I5I forming a parallel link arrangement. The link I52 ex tends forward and is pivotally connected to corresponding levers, one of which is showed at I53, pivotally mounted on a stationary bracket I54 for the purpose of supporting a lever decimal bar I33 in a manner similar to that in which the r bar I32 is supported. 
 A spring I55 is tensioned between the pin connecting the link I62 with the lever I41 and a pin I56 on the bracket I 49 to normally hold the decimal bars I32 and I33 in a raised position wherein the forward edge of the stop I28 (Figures l and 2) is held in the path of the projection I24 of slide Ill. Upon depression of one or the other of the decimal bars I32 and I33 against the action of spring I55, the link I46 and arms I44 and I45 are moved to retract the stop I28 rearwardly of the machine and out of the path of movement of the projection I24 on slide II1. Upon such retraction of the stop I28, the slide II1 will be free to be moved along with the carriage 250 during a carriage shifting operation. 
 The friction between the slide I I1 and the slide track II 8 is such that upon a leftward shift of the carriage with the projection I24 of slide II1 to the right of the stop I28, the projection I24 will rock the stop I28 against the action of spring I 38 in a counter-cloc :wise direction about the pin I35 as far as permi ted by pin I 34 before slippage will occur between the slide H1 and the track II8. Therefore, after the projection I24 has once contacted the stop I28 during a leftward carriage shift, it will maintain the stop in a clockwise rocked position as shown in Figure 1 at the end of each carriage shift, whether such shift should be for one or more steps. When the slide H1 is so arrested by the stop I28 after bending the spring I38, the mark I will be positioned to the left of the arrow I20 by an amount equal to one-half the ordinal distance between two adjacent dials. 
 If, after the carriage has come to rest in one of its several positions after the above leftward shift, one of the decimal bars I32 and I 33 be depressed, the stop I28 will be retracted from engagement with the projection I 24, allowing the leaf spring I38 to rock the stop clockwise. Thus, when the decimal bars I32 and I33 are allowed to be raised by spring I55, the inclined edge I28a of stop I28 will engage the inclined right edge I240: of the projection I 24. Therefore the stop will be prevented from thereafter arresting movement of slide H1 and bar II6 carried thereby, during subsequent shifting movement of the carriage toward the left. 
In order to maintain the stop I28 out of the path of movement of the projection I24 of slide II1 for extended periods, if desired, a lock I56 (Figures 1, 2, and 4) may be provided. Lock I is pivoted at I51 to the top plate I6I of the keyboard section, and has a knob I 58 extending from the rearmost end thereof whereby the lock I 55 may be rocked about its pivot I51 to carry a pro- J'ection I59 thereon in or out of a notch I60 formed in the key frame I50 of the decimal bar I32. To look the stop I28 out of the path of the projection I24, the decimal bar I32 is depressed to align the notch I60 therein with the projection I59 so that upon rocking the lock I56 clockwise the projection thereon will enter the notch I50 and prevent raising of the bars I32 and I 33 by the spring I55. 
 A second stop I21 is spaced to the right of the carriage position indicator arrow I20 by an amount sufiicient to enable it to engage the projection I24 of slide II1 when the slide is moved to the right of the arrow I20, or in other words, when the slide is moved rightward to point off a decimal position just to the right of the arrow. 
 Stop I21 is adjustable longitudinally into and out of the path of the projection I24, being frictionally held in either position, and is supported on the under surface of the cover I2I by pins I6I and I62 (Figures 1 and )3) Pin I6I extends through an elongated slot I83 in the cover I ll and is secured to a knob I65 which may be grasped to move the stop I21 back and forth. The pin I62 is secured in the cover I 2I and extends through an elongated slot I54 in the stop I21. 
 When the carriage is shifted to the right toward its rightmost end position, or to any other desired position, the stop I21 is adapted to engage projection I24 of slide H1 and then maintain it in position just to the right of the arrow I20 so that it will be in a correct position for a subsequent multiplication or division calculation wherein it is desired to determine the decimal point of the result. Also the friction between the slide I I1 and the track bar I I8 is such that if the slide H1 is situated to the left of the stop I28, shifting of the carriage 250 to the right toward a starting position will cause the inclined edge I24a of projection I24 to engage the inclined end I 28a of stop I28 and cam the stop I28 rearwardly, enabling the slide II1 to pass it. As the slide II1 passes the stop I28, the spring I55 is allowed to again move the stop I28 into arresting position relative to the projection I24. 
 To illustrate the operation of this form of my device during multiplication, employing the decimal bars I 32 and I33 to control setting of the decimal point indicators, assume the following example: 
Also, assume that the operator sets the carriage to the extreme right hand position as by depressing the upper shift key I405 and that he also sets the multiplicand 54.33 in the leftmost rows of keys I00, as illustrated in Figure l, in which condition the multiplicand decimal position would be indicated by the numeral 7 in the series of numerals I29. Therefore, the operator should adjust the decimal bar II8 until the numeral "7 appears in the window II1a of slide I I1. 
 With the stop I21 in effective position, the slide II1 will have been positioned against the said stop I21 by the rightward shift of the carriage as was described hereinabove, and will be in correct starting position. 
 Thereafter, the operator depresses the multiplier keys 200I, first the 6 key, and then the 4" key, et cetera, the carriage being automatically shifted one step toward the left after actuation of the machine under control of each key. After the carriage has shifted, upon completion of actuation of the machine under control of the first, or 6 multiplier key, the projection I24 of slide I I1 will have rocked the stop I28 clockwise about the pin I35 an amount permitted by pin I34. During the carriage shift following the depression of the 4" multiplier key, the stop I28 will prevent shifting of the slide II1 relative to the frame. Now, upon (and never before) completion of the carriage shift following the depression of the "4 multiplier key, the operator should depress one or the other of the decimal bars I32 and I33, depending upon which is the most convenient. This may be done concurrently with depression of the next, or 9 multiplier key. The stop I28 is thereby removed from arresting position, enabling the slide II1 to travel along with the carriage from then on. At this time the mark I25 on the slide II1 indicates the decimal point of the multiplier appearing in the counter register I800, while the mark I30 on the bar II5 correctly indicates the decimal point of the product appearing in the accumulator register 3I8. 
 As mentioned before, if the multiplicand of a series of multiplication problems can be set around the same decimal point of marker I I3 on the keyboard, the slide I I6 will not need to be adjusted for each new problem. It will be restored to starting position by movement of the carriage to the right, and automatically reset during the entry of each new multiplier. The only manipulation necessary will be the depresassigns the slide 1 in the proper position. Just to the right of the carriage indicator arrow I26 when the carriage is being shifted toward the-right to its starting position. The stop I26 must, in division operation, be removed from arresting position by locking the decimal bars I62 and Ill depressed by the lock I66, as described hereinabove. I 
 Figures 5 and 6 illustrate a modified form of the invention which especially facilitates the determination of the position of the decimal point in a quotient in division, while also facilitating the determination of the position of the decimal point of a product in multiplication. The steps I21 and I26 and control means therefor including the decimal bars I32 and I63, are preferably employed (see'Figures 1 and 2). 
However, in this embodiment, a U-shaped track the rear of the slide I16. The strip I66 has a leg I661 thereon extending around the rear edge of the lower leg of the trackI66 to guide and retain the slide on the track. 
 the edges of the slide I11. By pressing inwardly I65 is provided, being mounted on clips I16 adjustable along a pair of parallel slide tracks I61 and I66 suitably secured to the cover of the carriage 256. A projection I69, corresponding in purpose to the projection I24 of Figures 1 and 2, extends upwardly from the track I65, and is adapted to cooperate with the stops I21 and I28 in a manner similar to that disciosed'in connection with Figures 1 and 2. 
 The track I65 is c-shaped in cross section (see Figure 6), and a-flexible strip I66 of spring metal isslidably retained therein. A pair of decimal marked signs or indicators at "I and I12 are mounted on the opposite ends of the strip I66, the former indicator extending into decimal indicating relationship with the counter register I666 while the latter indicator I12 extends into decimal indicating relationship with the accumulator register 3 I6. g 
 Extending parallel to the track I65, and secured by brackets I14 to the upper leg of said track, is a scale I15 provided with ordinally arranged progressively distinguished indicia I16 illustrated as numerals 0 to 9, which corresnond to the ordinally spaced series of numerals I29 (Figure 1) of the keyboard. 
 Fitted on the scale I15 for sliding movement therealong, is a slide I11 having a window I16 thereon adapted to be registered with one or another of the numerals I16 for the purpose of facilitating movement of the slide I11 to a position corresponding to the position of the decimal point in an amount set in the keyboard. 
-A decimal indicating slide I16 is slidably adjustable along the lower leg of the track I65,-and has a mark I66 extending into decimal indicating relationship with the dials of the accumulator register 386. The slide I19 has a portion thereof extending around the bottom of the lower leg of track I and terminating in a friction shoe I6l (Figure 6) of a material such as rubber, which normally bears upon the strip I66 and, when the slide I19 is inits normal position illustrated in Figure 6, frictionally engages the strip I66 so that it is moved along the track I65 with the slide I19 when said slide is moved therealong. The slide I16 is supported on the top of the lower leg of the track by a ball bearing I62 held in place by a strip I63 of spring metal through a hole in which the ball I82 partially extends, and which is suitably secured to The slide I16 has a pair of spaced ears I66 formed on the upper extending portion thereof which, when this slide is in alignment with the slide I11, may be moved inwardly to embrace toward the cover of the carriage 266 on the upper tip of the slide I16, these two slides may be connected together and slid as a unit along the scale I15 and track I65. When the tip of the slide I16 is pressed inwardly in this manner, to connect the same with the slide I11, it rocks about the ball bearing I62 to remove the friction shoe I6I from engagement with the strip I65, and thus permit movement of the slides I11 and I16 independently of the strip I66. 
 In setting and operating the device of Figures 5 and 6 to indicate the decimal point of a product in multiplicatio the track I65 is moved to the right until the projection I66 thereon abuts the stop I21. This may be accomplished either manually or by shifting the carriage to the right into a starting position in the manner described in connection with the device illustrated in Figures 1 and 2. 
 The strip I66 is then adjusted by means of the slide I19 until the decimal mark I registers with the zero on the track I15. The slide I11 is then adjusted along the scale I15 until it is aligned with the slide I16 and then, by pressing inwardly on the upper tip of the slide I19, both slides are moved along the track I65 and scale I15 until the window I16 registers with a numeral I16 corresponding to the numeral in the series I26 (Figure 1) aligned with the set decimal marker H3 indicating the position of 6 and the machine is operated as usual by depressing the various-multiplier keys 26!" (Figure 1) according to the value of the multiplier. 
 When the automatic carriage shift, following depression of the first multiplier key occurs, the projection I66 will be moved into contact with the stop I26 and will rock the same slightly toward the left, causing the leaf spring I36 to yield in the same manner as described hereinbefore. Then, after the multiplier key corresponding to the last whole number digit in'the multiplier is depressed and the carriage is auto matically shifted one step to the left subsequent to the actuation initiated thereby, one of the decimal bars I32 and I63 is depressed to remove the stop I28 from its normal arresting position. The track I65 will then be allowed to move along with the carriage 256, the mark. ill indi eating the position of the decimal point in, the multiplier appearing in the counter register @866, while theclecimal indicating marl; E86 will indicate the position of the decimal pont of the product appearing in the accumulator register 3H3. 
 In the event that the multiplicand consists entirelyof whole numbers and the rightmost digit of this amount is set in the rightmost bani: of keys of the keyboard, itwill not be necessary to use the slide I11 at all, and slide we will be used only for positioning the decimal point indicator ill in registry with zero on the scale I16. Having so adjusted the indicator I'll, the lower decimal point ilz wiilautomatically be so arranged as to correctly set off the decimal position in the product. 
 In division the track I85 is also brought, to a rightmost position wherein the projection I69 abuts the stop I21; but the stop I28 is rendered ineffective in the manner heretofore described. 
 If the problem is such that the dividend and the divisor can both be properly set with reference to the same set decimal marker II3 without shifting the carriage between setting of these factors, the pointer III need only be set in registry with thezero on scale I15, in which position it will correctly indicat the position of the decimal point in the quotient. However, if the divisor contains more or many less digits to the left of the decimal point than the dividend, or whenever desired, the following procedure is followed. 
 The dividend is set into the machine as usual and, with the decimal indicator Ill arranged at zero registration relative to the scale I15, the slides I11 and I19 are adjusted together without displacing the spring strip I66, in a manner described hereinbefore, until the window I18 in slide I11 registers with the numeral on scale I corresponding to the numeral of the series I29 (Figure 1) aligned with the set decimal marker II3 of the dividend. After the dividend is added into the accumulator register, the divisor is set up in the keyboard in the usual manner, with the highest digit thereof in alignment with the highest digit of the dividend. Then, with the slide I19 in its normal position (illustrated in Figure 6 wherein it grips the strip I66 carrying the decimal marks HI and I12), said slide is moved into alignment with a numeral on the scale I15 corresponding to the position of the decimal point in the divisor as ascertained by reference to the series of numerals I29. The mark I1I will then correctly indicate the position of the decimal point in the quotient. 
 This holds true regardless of whether the position of the divisors decimal point is to one side or the other of that of the dividend, or in other words, regardless of whether the divisor is larger or smaller than the dividend. In either case, movement of the slide I1! to correctly indicate the position of the decimal point in the divisor will produce an equal and opposite movement of the mark III. At the same time, the slide I11 remains fixed relative to the scale I15 so that subsequent division problems may be worked using the same dividend decimal point without requiring adjustment of the slide I11. The only adjustment needed in such cases is the adjustment of the slide I19 into a position corresponding to the decimal point of the new divisor. If it is also possible to enter the different divisors in the keyboard about th same divisor decimal point, adjustment of the slide I19 before each division problem may also be dispensed with. 
 Figures 7 and 8 illustrate another modified form of decimal indicating device of the present invention which automatically effects indication of the position of the decimal points in products and quotients in multiplication and division problems respectively. In this embodiment, stops I21 and I28, and control means including the decimal bars I32 and I33 are preferably employed as disclosed in connection with Figures 1 and 2 to control setting of the decimal point. The device is housed in a cover 200 adapted to be secured to the cover of the carriag 250 and comprises a pair of spirally grooved rods MI and 202 extending parallel to each other and iournaled in bearings formed in the ends of the housing cover 200. The spiral grooves in rods 20I and 202 extend in parallel angular relation to each other. However, the rods are connected together by gears 20! and 204 so that rotation of one of the rods in one direction causes an equal and opposite rotation of the other rod. 
 A pair of rods 205 and 206 are arranged intermediate the grooved rods MI and 202 andare fixed at their leftmost ends in the left hand cover of the housing cover 200, while the right hand ends thereof are fixed in a bracket 209 (Figure 7) secured to the housing cover 200. 
 A slide 2I0 is mounted on a bushing 2II slidable along the upper rod 206, and has a pair of downwardly extending teeth H2 and 2I3 formed thereon, the former tooth being adapted to engage with the spiral groove of the rod 20I while the latter tooth is adapted to be engaged with the spiral groove of the rod 202, depending upon which way the slide "I is rocked about the shaft 206. The slide 2I0 also has a tab portion 2I5 extending through an elongated slot 2I4 in the cover 200 into decimal indicating relationship with the dials of the accumulator register III, a decimal point being preferably inscribed thereon. 
 An eccentrically mounted rod 2I6 is journaled at opposite ends thereof in the end plate 2" of the cover 200 and in the bracket 209, and is provided with a handle 2I8 secured to the outer end thereof. This rod 2I6 contacts the upper surface of the slide 2I0 at one side of the rod 206 and also contacts, at a diametrically opposite point thereon, a follower 2 I9 secured to the slide 2I0. Thus, by rocking the handle 2I8, the eccentric rod 2I6 may rock the slide 2I0 to engage either of the teeth 2I2 and 2I3 with its corresponding spirally grooved rod, regardless of the position of the slide along the rod 206. 
 A second slide 220 is mounted on a bushing 22I slidable along the lower rod 205, and is provided with upwardly extended teeth 222 and 222 thereon adapted to engage the spirally grooved rods 20I and 202, respectively. The slide 220 has an upwardly extending portion 224 thereon which is bent over to contact the surface of an eccentrically mounted rod 225 similar to the rod 2I6, and a follower 221 is fixed to the upwardly extending portion 224 of slide 220 to contact the rod 225 at a point, opposite that contacted by the portion 224, whereby rocking of the rod 225 is effective to selectively engage either of the teeth 222 and 223 with their respective spirally grooved rods 20I and 202. Rod 225 is also mounted in the end cover 2|! of the cover 200 at one end thereof and in the bracket 209 at the opposite end thereof. A handle 226 is secured to the rod 225 to facilitate rocking thereof for this purpose. 
 By adjusting either of the rods H8 and 225 into an intermediate position, its corresponding slide will be rocked to a position out of engagement with both of the spirally grooved rods "I and 202 whereby the slide may be moved longizudinally along the rods to any desired posiion. 
 Bushing 22I has an extended portion formed thereon (see Figure 7) on which is pivotally retained, by means of a ring 235, a projection 224 extending upwardly under the cover I2I of the machine and adapted to engage one or another of the stops I21 and 2 I9 in the same manner, and for the same purpose as the projection I24 of Figures 1 and 2. Projection 210 extends through asaaaie a slot 23I in the housing cover 200, and has a decimal indicating mark 232 inscribed thereon which is disposed in decimal indicating relationship with the dials of the counter register "00. 
 The spiral grooves of the rods 201 and 202 are shown as'having a-pitch equal tothe ordinal distance between adjacent dials oi the accumulator and counter registers and should extend at such an angle relative to the axes oi the rods that longitudinal movement of either slide 220 or 2| relative to the carriage will effect rotation of the rod I or 202 to which the slide is connected. However, this angle should also be such that rotation of the rods, as by a knob 233' (Figure 7) fixed to the rod 20l, will effect iongitudinal movement of whichever of the slides Y starting positionwill reset the slides to again indicate the correct position of the decimal point in the product, aswell as the multiplier when the decimal bars I32 and I33 are depressed at the correct point in the next multiplication operation. 
position. At this time the slide 2I0, if it is not already disengaged from both rods 20I and 202, 
is so disengaged by manipulation of a handle H3 and is slid along its supporting rod 203 until it is vertically aligned with the decimal marker H3 with reference to which thedividend is set in the keyboard. The slides 2I0 and 220 are then engaged with different ones of the rods MI and 202 was to enable them to be moved in opposite directions upon rotation of the rods. For example, if the slide 220 is rocked to engage its tooth 222 with the spiral groove of rod 20I, then the slide 2 I0 should be rocked to engage its tooth 2I3 with the spiral groove of rod 202. 
 After entering the dividend in the accumulator register, the divisor may be set up in the keyboard with the highest digit thereof in alignment with the highest digit appearing in the accumulator. 
rod 225 is rocked by the handle 226 to engage the slide 220 in either of these grooved rods. The slide 2I0 is now rocked by means of the rod 2I6 and handle 2l8,'unti1 it is out of contact with both of the rods MI and 202, and it is then shifted along-the rod 206 by grasping and moving the tab 2E5 until it is directly aligned with the set decimal marker I I3 of the multiplicand in the keyboard. ,Thereafter the slide 2I0 is rocked into engagement with the same grooved rod with which the slide 220 is in engagement so that rotation of one of the rods will effect equal movement of the slides 2I0 and 220 in the same direction. 
 After the device has been set in the above described condition, the multiplication is performed as usual. The first automatic shift of the carriage following the depression of the first multiplier keys serves to merely shift the projection 230 into contact with the stop I28 and to slightly rock the latter against the action of its spring I38 (Figure 1). During a second automatic shift following depression of a second multiplier key (providing the decimal bar I32 or I 33 has not been depressed), the stop [28 will prevent movement of the projection 231i and slide 220 along with the carriage and will consequently cause whichever rod slide 220 is in engagement with to'rotate the rod and therefore cause the same relative movement to be efiectedbetween the slide 2 i d and the carriage. 
 As described hereinbfore in connection with other forms of the invention, when a decimal bar I32 or i343 is depressed, the stop I28 will be released, and during subsequent automatic carriage shifts following depression of multiplier keys the slides 2i0 and 220 will follow along with the carriage, the decimal indicating points H5 and 232 indicating the correct'positions of the decimal points in the product and multiplier, respectively, 
 If in subsequent multiplication problems it is possible to set the multiplicand with reference to the same decimal marker H3 on the keyboard, it will not be necessary to readjust the setting of the slides 2H) and 220. The mere act of returning the carriage to the right for the new The operator now turns the knob 233 to shift the slide 2"] until its decimal indicating mark 2I5 is in direct alignment with the position of the decimal position in the divisor set up in the keyboard. During this adjustment of the slide 2I0, and the ensuing calculation, both of the stops I21 and I28 should be removed from their eifective arresting positions in the manner described hereinbefore, to allow the projection 230 to be shifted in a direction opposite to that of movement of the slide 2|0. The decimal indicating mark 232 will thus indicate the correct position of the decimal point in the quotient appearing in the counter register I800. 
 It will be seen irom the above description, that decimal indicating devices made i accordance with my present invention are readily capable of indicating the position of the decimal points in products and quotients in multiplication and division problems with a minimum amount of manipulation and mental eifort on the part of the operator, and although I have described my invention in detail and therefore utilized certain specific terms and languageherein, it is to be understood that the present disclosure is illustrative, rather than restrictive, and that changes and modifications may be resorted to without departing from the spirit or the scope of the claims appended hereto. 
1 claim: 
 1. In a calculating machine having a frame supporting value selecting device's, differential actuating mechanism controlled by said devices, and a carriage carrying registering mechanism operable by said differential actuating mechanism and ordinally shiitable with respect thereto; the combination of a decimal indicator adjustable in decimal indicating relationship with said registering mechanism, means operable upon ordinal shifting of the registering mechanism for concurrently eifecting ordinal shifting of said decimal indicator to maintain unchanged the indicated position of the decimal point in amounts displayed by said registering mechanism, means for preventing ordinal shifting of said decimal indicator concurrently with ordinal shifting of said registering mechanism to effect successive changes in the indicated position 01' the decimal point in amounts displayed by said registering mechanism upon ordinal shifting of the latter, and mechanism selectively operable to render one of said means effective and the other ineffective. 
 2. In a calculating machine having a frame supporting value selecting devices, differential actuating mechanism controlled by said devices, and a carriage carrying registering mechanism operable by said differential actuating mechanism and ordinally shiftable with respect thereto; the combination of a decimal indicator mounted on said carriage and adjustable in decimal indicating relationship with said registering mechanism, and means for eifecting ordinal shifting of said registering mechanism with respect to said decimal indicator and thus successively changing the indicated position of the decimal point in amounts displayed by said registering mechanism, said means comprising a selectively settable stop for said indicator, with respect to which stop said carriage is ordinally shiftable. 
 3. In a calculating machine having a frame supporting value selecting devices, differential actuating mechanism controlled by said devices, and a carriage carrying registering mechanism operable by said differential actuating mechanism and ordinally shiftable with respect thereto; the combination of a decimal indicator mounted on said carriage and adjustable in decimal indicating relationship with said registering mechanism, means for eflecting ordinal shifting of said carriage in either direction with respect to said decimal indicator and thus successively changing the indicated position of the decimal point in amounts displayed by said registering mechanism; said means comprising a pair of ordinally spaced stops for said indicator, with respect to which stops said carriage is ordinally shiftable; and means selectively operable to render one of said stops ineffective. 
 4. In a calculating machine having a frame supporting value selecting devices, differential actuating mechanism controlled by said devices, a carriage carrying registering mechanism operable by said difierential actuating mechanism and ordinally shiftable with respect thereto, and means for shifting said carriage; the combination of a decimal indicator mounted on said carriage and adjustable in decimal indicating relationship with said registering mechanism, a yieldably mounted stop extending into the path of movement of said indicator to prevent movement thereof with said carriage in one direction, but capable of movement on said mounting to permit movement of said indicator with the carriage in the opposite direction, means automatically effective upon movement of said carriage in said opposite direction for moving said yieldably mounted stop on its said mounting out of the path of movement of said indicator, and manually controlled-means for withdrawing said stop from the path of movement of said indicator. 
 5. In a calculating machine having a frame supporting value selecting devices, difierential actuating mechanism controlled by said devices, 
of movement of said indicator to prevent movement thereof with said carriage in one direction, but capable oi movement on said mounting to permit movement oi said indicator with the carriage in the opposite direction, a resetting stop ordinally spaced from said yieldably mounted stop and extending into the path of movement of said indicator to prevent movement thereof with said carriage in the direction opposite to that in which said yieldable stop is capable of preventing such movement, means automatically eifective upon movement 01 said carriage in said opposite direction for moving said yieldably mounted stop on its said mounting out of the path of movement of said indicator, and manually controlled means for withdrawing said yieldably mounted stop from the path of movement of said indicator. 
 6. In a calculating machine having a frame supporting value selecting devices, differential actuating mechanism controlled by said devices, counter actuating mechanism, and a carriage carrying an accumulator and a counter operable by said actuating mechanisms respectively and ordinally shiftable with respect to said actuating mechanisms; the combination of a first decimal indicator adjustable in decimal indicating relationship with said accumulator, a second decimal indicator adjustable in decimal indicating relationship with said counter, means operable upon ordinal shifting of the registering mechanism for concurrently effecting ordinal shifting of said decimal indicators to maintain unchanged the indicated positions of the decimal points in amounts displayed by said accumulator and counter, means for preventing ordinal shifting of said decimal indicators concurrent with ordinal shifting of said carriage to effect successive changes in the indicated positions of the decimal points in amounts displayed by said accumulator and counter upon ordinal shifting of said carriage, and mechanism selectively operable to render one of said means effective and the other ineffective. 
 7. In a calculating machine having a frame supporting value selecting devices, differential actuating mechanism controlled by said devices, counter actuating mechanism, and a carriage carrying an accumulator and a counter operable by said actuating mechanisms respectively and ordinally shiftable with respect to said actuata carriage carrying registering mechanism oper- V ing mechanisms; the combination of a first decimal indicator adjustable in decimal indicating relationship with said accumulator, a second decimal indicator adjustable in decimal indicating relationship with said counter, a releasable con nection between said first and second decimal indicators whereby the same may be simultaneously or separately adjusted in decimal indicating relationship with their respective registers, means operable upon ordinal shifting of the registering mechanism for concurrently eifecting ordinal shifting of said decimal indicators to maintain unchanged the indicated positions of the decimal points in amounts displayed by said accumulator and counter, means for preventing ordinal shifting of said decimal indicators concurrently with ordinal shifting of said carriage to effect successive changes in the indicated positions of the decimal points in amounts displayed by said accumulator and counter upon ordinal shifting of said carriage, and mechanism selectively operable to render one of said means eflective and the other ineffective. 
8. In a calculating machine having a frame supporting value selecting devices, diflerential actuating mechanism controlled by said devices, counter actuating mechanism, and a carriage carrying an accumulator and a counter operable by said actuating mechanisms respectively and ordinally shiftabie with respect to said actuating mechanisms; the combination of a first ing the indicated positions of the decimal points in amounts displayed by said accumulator and counter; said means comprising a selectively settable stop means cooperating with both of said indicators, with respect to which stop means said carriage is ordinally shiftable. 
 9. In a calculating machine having a frame supporting value selecting devices, differential actuating mechanism controlled by said devices, counter actuating mechanism, and a carriage carrying an accumulator and a counter operable by said actuating mechanisms respectively and. ordinally shiftable with respect to said actuating mechanisms; the combination of a first decimal indicator mounted on said carriage and adjustable in decimal indicating relationship with said accumulator, a second decimal indicator mounted on said carriage and adjustable in decimal indicating relationship with said counter, and means for effecting ordinal shifting of said accumulator and said counter with reference to their respective decimal indicators and thus successively changing the indicated positions of the decimal points in amounts displayed by said accumulator and counter; said means comprising a selectively settable stop means cooperating with both of said indicators, with respect to which stop means said carriage is ordinally shiftable. I 
 10. In a calculating machine having a frame supporting value selecting devices, differential actuating mechanism controlled by said devices, counter actuating mechanism, and a carriage carrying an accumulator and a counter operable by said actuating mechanisms respectively, and 
ordinally shiftable with respect to said actuating mechanisms; the combination of a first decimal indicator mounted on said carriage and adjustable in decimal indicating relationship with said accumulator, a second decimal indicator mounted on said carriage and adjustable in decimal indicating relationship with said counter, a releasable connection between said first and second decimal indicators whereby the same may be simultaneously or separately adjusted in decimal indicatingrelationship with their respective registers, means for effecting ordinal shifting of said accumulator and said counter in either direction with reference to their respective decimal indicators and thus successively changing the indicated positions of the decimal points in amounts displayed by said accumulator and counter; said means comprising paired ordinally spaced stop means cooperating with both of said indicators, with respect to which stop means said carriage is ordinally shii'table; and means selectively operable to render one of said paired stop means ineffective. 
 11. In a calculating machine having a frame supporting value selecting devices, differential actuating mechanism controlled by said devices, counter actuating 'inechanism, and a carriage carrying an accumulator and a counter operable by said actuating mechanisms respectively, and ordinally shiftable with respect to said actuating mechanisms; the combination of a first decimal indicator mounted on said carriage and adjustable in decimal indicating relationship with said accumulator, a second decimal indicator mounted on said carriage and adjustable in decimal indicating relationship with said counter, means for effecting ordinal shifting of said accumulator and said counter in either direction with reference to their respective decimal indicators and thus successively changing the indicated positions of the decimal points in amounts displayed by said accumulator and counter; said means comprising paired ordinally spaced stop means cooperating with both of said indicators, with respect to which stop means said carriage is ordinally shiftable; and means selectively operable to render one of said paired stop means ineffective. 
 12. In a calculating machine having a frame supporting value selecting devices, differential actuating mechanism controlled by said devices, counter actuating mechanism, a carriage carrying an accumulator and a counter operable by said actuating mechanisms respectively and ordinally shiftable with respect thereto, and means for shifting said carriage; the combination of a first decimal indicator mounted on said carriage and adjustable in decimal indicating relationship with said accumulator, a second decimal indicator mounted on said carriage and adjustable in decimal indicating relationship with said counter, a releasable connection between said first and second decimal indicators whereby the same may be simultaneously or separately adjusted in decimal indicating relationship with their respective registers, a yieldably mounted stop extending adjacent the path of movement of said carriage to prevent movement of said indicators with said carriage in one direction, but capable of movement on said mounting to permit movement of said indicators with the carriage in the opposite direction, means automatically effective upon movement of said carriage in said opposite direction for moving said yieldably mounted stop on its said mounting to permit movement of said indicators past the same, and manually controlled means for renindicator mounted on said carriage and adjustable in decimal indicating relationship with said counter, a releasable connection between said first and second decimal indicators whereby the same may be simultaneously or separately adjusted in decimal indicating relationship with their respective registers, a yieldably mounted stop extending adjacent the path of movement of said carriage to prevent movement of said indicators with said carriage in one direction, but capable of movement on said mounting to permit movement of said indicators with the carriage in the opposite direction, a resetting stop ordinally spaced from said yieldably mounted stop and extending adJacent the path of movement of said carriage to prevent movement of said indicators with said carriage in the direction opposite to that in which said yieldable stop is capable of preventing such movement, means automatically eflective upon movement of said carriage in said opposite direction for moving said yieldably mounted stop on its said mounting to permit movement of said indicators past the same, and manually controlled means for rendering said yieldably mounted stop ineiIective to prevent movement of said indicators with said carriage in said one direction. 
 14. In a calculating machine having a frame carrying selection mechanism upon which an amount may be set, including denominationally arranged-means for indicating an amount entered thereinto, a series of progressively distinguished indicia each indicia indicating a denomination of said amount indicating means, and a carriage carrying a product register transversely shiftable relative to said frame; the combination of a decimal indicating device adjustably supported by said carriage for movement along said register, said device having a decimal indicating portion disposed in decimal indicating relationship with said register and a series of progressively distinguished indicia thereon denominationally spaced from each other and from said decimal indicating portion and sequentially corresponding with the successive indicia of the series indicating the denomination of said amount indicating means, and stop means carried by said frame and effective to prevent movement of said decimal indicating device relative to said frame during shifting movement of said carriage. 
 15. In a calculating machine having a frame carrying selection mechanism upon which a multiplicand may be set, including denominationally arranged means for indicating an amount entered thereinto; and a carriage carrying a product register and a multiplier register transversely shiftable relative to said frame; the combine.- 
tion of a decimal indicating device comprising a decimal indicator for one of said registers denominationally adjustable on said carriage, a decimal indicator for the other of said registers carried by said first mentioned decimal indicator and adjustable with respect thereto, and selectively settable means for preventing movement of said indicators relative to said frame during shifting of said carriage. 
16. In a calculating machine having a pair of denominationally arranged registers, a decimal indicating device comprising decimal indicator means for one of said registers, decimal indicator means for the other or said registers, and selectively settable means for concurrently moving both of said indicator means along said 818- ters in the same direction or, selectively, in opposite directions in timed relation with respect to each other. 
 17. In a calculating machine having a pair of denominationally arranged registers, a decimal indicating device comprising decimal indicator means for one of said registers, decimal indicator means for the other of said registers, means including selectively settable members for concurrently moving both of said indicator means along said registers in the same direction or, selectively, in opposite directions in timed relationship with respect to each other; said members being settable to release said indicators from said last named means to permit the decimal indicating position of one of said indicator means to be altered without altering the decimal indicating position of the other of said indicators. 
 18. In a calculating machine having a pair of denominationally arranged registers; a decimal indicating device comprising decimal indicator means for one of said registers, decimal indicator means for the other of said registers, a support for both of said indicator means adjustable along said registers, and means on said support interconnecting both of said indicator means for concurrent movement along said registers in opposite directions with respect to each other. 
 19. In a calculating machinehaving a pair of denominationally arranged registers; a decimal indicating device comprising decimal indicator means for one of said registers, decimal indicator means for the other of said registers, a support for both of said indicator means adjustable along said registers, means on said support interconnecting both of said indicator means for concurrent movement along said registers in opposite directions with respect to each other, and means for releasing one of said indicator means from said-interconnecting means whereby the decimal indicating position of one of said decimal indicator means may be adjusted relative to said interconnecting means. 
 20. In a calculating machine having a frame, and a carriage carrying a pair of registers transversely shiftable relative to said frame; a decimal indicating device comprising a decimal indicator for one of said registers, a decimal indicator for the other of said registers, a drivingdevice adapted to drive said indicators in either of opposite directions along said registers, means whereby each of said indicators may be selectively connected to said driving device to be driven in either of said opposite directions thereby, and 
means controlled by said carriage for operating said driving device. 
' EUGENE E. REYNOLDS.