Computing machine 
US-2344627-A
nan
1944-03-21
https://patents.google.com/patent/US2344627A/en
' March 21, 1944 7H. P..MIXER 2,344,627 
COMPUTING MACHINE Filed may 2, 1941 e Sheets-Sheet 1 FIG. I 
 i mvzwroa HAROLD e MIXER :1 v 
ATTORNEY March 21, 1944. H. P. MIXER COMPUTING MACHINE Filed llay 2, 1941 6 Sheets-Sheet 2 mvzwroa HAROLD F. MIXER ATTORNEY March 21,1944. HQ ER 2,344,627 
COMPUTING HACHINE Filed May 2, 1941 6 Sheets-Sheet 3 mvzriron HAROLD P MIXER av JVL L- ATTORNEY March 21, 1944. H. P. MIXER COMPUTING MAHINE 5 Sheets-Sheet 4 Filed May 2, 1941 mvaufoa .HAROLD F? MIXER JL ATTORNEY March 21, 1944. H. P. M IXER COMPUTING MACHINE Filed May 2, 1941 e Sheets-Sheet 5 FIG. 9 
INVENTOR HAROLD P MIXER AT'TORNEY March 21, 1944. 
F'iled May 2, 194 
6 Sheets-Sheet 6 FIG. I l 12 44 d I 3'6 4' I UNI'TS T N F|G.l3 47 68 I 7 74 70 9 e a a o 74 a 55 52 o a $7 I 0 6| 5 a 0 s3 63 l 56 i j 65 $8 63 T r/ 4 4| 65 n n TL TL 582 INVENTOR HAROLD P. MIXER ATTOR NEY general classes. 
Patented Mar. '21, 1944 UNITED STATES PATENT OFFICE Harold P. Mixer, Rockville Centre, N. 1, assignor to Remington Rand Inc, Buflalo, N. Y., a corporation of Delaware Application May 2, 1941, Serial No. 391,441 
(01. ass-c1) 11 Claims. 
 This invention relates to accumulator mechanisms for use in computing machines, and more particularly accumulators of the creep carry type. 
 The advantages 0! creep accumulators with differential gearing over snap carry accumulators is well known in the computing machine art. The 
 features which are valuable to any computing mechanism. I 
 Accumulators using diiierential gears and the creep means of carrying may be divided into two One of these classes includes the spur gear arrangement where the carry ratio is obtained by a similar ratio of gear teeth. An example 0! this class may be found in U. S. Patent No. 2,214,029'issued to H. P. Mixer, September 10, 1940, or in U. 8. Patent No; 2,211,736, issued to H. T. Avery, August 13, 1940. The second class- The present invention is applicable to both oi these classes. 
 Generally stated, the invention has for its principal object to facilitate the visual reading oi totals and the taking of totals by clearing the accumulator, in accumulatqs of the creep carry ype. 
One of the objects of the present invention isto rectify the creep increments in a series or reading dials o! a creep carry accumulator whereby the correct accumulated amount may be read after each addition. 
 The above mentioned patent, 1,828,180, is a good example of the prior art computing machines which make use of a creep-crawl accumulator having an internal floating gear. The construction permits a total to be indicated only when the orders are zeroized one after another, starting from the lowest or .units order, The present invention has for one of its oblects to provide a construction which permits the orders to be zeroized simultaneously regardless of the accumulator position. 
 A creep carry accumulator can be cleared by engaging it with its actuating racks and advancability to run in either direction at high speed and into cooperation therewith, provided each and every one or said wheels stands either in its zero position or advanced addltively not more than nine spaces. fractional amount greater than 9 and iess than 10 that the trouble occurs, and especially when that amount is nearly 10; There is a critical zone in the fractional positions of a resultant wheel. between the 9 and 0 positions, where there is at least the danger that the stop would an, in front of the stop lug and arrest the wheel immediately, which has made it necessary to restore the wheels of a creep carry accumulator successively. To bridge this zone is an object of the invention. This is done by providing a latching mechanism for the zero stops which automatically holdsthe which will be any described herein and particularly pointed out in the claims. I 
 The prior art machines that rectify the cree crawl accumulator wheels do so by subtracting the creep out of the wheel movements by turning them in a reverse direction. The present invention starts a computing operation by subtracting a unit from the indicator in each denominational order; then, when the amount isto be read or printed, the creep is rectified by adding to each indicator, an amount equal to one-tenth oi the I ten complement of the amount in the next lower Fig. 3 taken from the left and shows most of thein: said racks simultaneously in subtracting direction each until it is arrested by a stop lug on the resultant wheel engaging a zero stop brought order accumulator wheel. 
 Other objects and structural details of the invention will be apparent from the following description when read in connection with the acconipanying drawings, wherein, 
 Fig. 1 is a side elevation taken from the left side of the machine; 
Fig. 21s a cross sectional view on line 2--il oi operating elements in normal zero position: 
, Fig. 3 is an elevation taken from the back; 
 Fig. 4 is an exploded isometric view oi? the accumulator parts and the reading gidicator dial mechanism; 
Fig. 5 is an exploded isometric view of the two control cams which are positioned at each side of the machine; 
It is when some wheel registers a base of the machine. 
 Fig. 6 is a cross sectional view similar to Fig. 2 of the accumulator mechanism without the supporting framework and shows the accumulator in mesh with its actuators; 
 Fig. 7 is a front view of two orders of the accumulator mechanism with one order shown in section; 
 Fig. 8 is a side elevational view of the three hole coupling disc which is one element of the accumulator; 
 P18. 9 is a side elevational view of the eccentric gear which is another element of the accumulator; 
 Fig. 10 is an isometric view of the eccentric bearing and sleeve which control the eccentric gear shown in Fig. 9. 
 Fig. 11 is a vertical sectional view fromthe rear and through the axes of the accumulator and the indicator, and showing the units and tens orders of the accumulator and the indicator; 
 Fig. 12 is a rear elevation of the two-indicator wheels of the highest order and the compensating devices therefor, many parts being omitted for the sake of clearness: and 
 Fig. 13 is a schematic view illustrating the principle of the invention, the total registered on the accumulator and indicated in its true amount on the indicator being 00999. 
 Referring now to Figs. 1 and 2, the keyboard consists of a cylindrical shell It with slots il cut therein. A plurality of key levers II are rotatably mounted on a central shaft II and are moved in the slots II to specifled points along the circumference of the shell in to enter digits into the accumulator. A gear section M (Fig. 2) is provided as an integral Par of each key lever I for meshing with the accumulator numeral wheels. To insure more accurate placing of the key levers, a detent I, mounted upon each of said levers with the customary sprlng-pin-slot combination, is used in cooperation with an internal star wheel, segment ll. 4 
 This form of keyboard is similar in many respects to commercial cash registers and is well known in the art. 
 Toward the rear of the machine an accumulator shaft ll extends transversely for the entire width of the machine and is supported at each end by an irregular flat support ll (see Fig. which rocks on a shaft II Journaled near the The shaft l1 extends through the supports it a short distance so as to engage cam levers II in cam slots 22. Manual movement is imparted to levers 2| by means of a pair of handles 23 which extend upward through slots in the keyboard face. The cam slots 22 are so constructed as to move a series of numeral wheels 24 into engagement with the sear sectors II when the handles 23 are moved toward the front of the machine (see Fig. 6). When the. handles are moved to the rear, the shaft II is cammed back to the position sh wn in Pig. 2, the numeral wheels are then 1' of the gear sector ll, but are held securely by a series of detents 2!. 
 The detents 2! are fixedly mounted by means of two rods II and 84 and held in spaced relation by a plurality of sleeves 35. One detent is provided for each numeral wheel 24. 
The accumulator (see Figs. 2, 4, 6, '1, 8, 9, 
and is creep-carry, the main parts of which are well known in the art and have been described in several patents. These parts include in each the nine-toothed numeral wheel 24, a,oouplin g disc ll, an eccentrically mounted or floating gear 31, and an eccentric bearing 38 on-a sleeve ll. To these are added a ten-toothed resultant gear 0 and a snail cam 4| which assist in the operation of the reading a and clearing mechanism. 
 As previously stated the geared sectors II, which enter the amounts, mesh with the ninetoothed numeral wheels II. To each of these wheels is secured a coupling disc 18 which has 10 three holes 42 cut therein to cooperate wth a series of three pins 43 which are attached to the eccentric gear 31. 
 The floating gear 31 (Fig. 4) has nine notches on its periphery and these mesh with ten pins ll (acting as internal gear teeth) which are acoured to the snail cam ll. Since the tooth spacing is the same for both gears, the floating gear 31 is free to move around within the ten tooth gear under the control of the eccentric 2 bearing 38, gaining one tooth during each revolution of the sleeve ll. 
 The resultant gear I is secured to the snail cam 4i. However, in order to make room for certain parts of the reading mechanism a spacer 25 I is interposed between them when they are riveted together. The assembly consisting of the cam 4i, spacer l5 and gear ll, constitutu the resultant wheel, which is fast on the right-hand end of the sleeve 46 which passes through the 80 Sear 24, disc 38 and gear 31 of the next hkher denomination and has the eccentric ll fast on its lefthand end. In the units order the sleeve II is fixedly anchored to the frame member ll as indicated at the left in Fig. 11. The resultant 35 gear in any one order is also pinned to the sleeve 48 in the same order so that, when the gear 40 makes one complete revolution, the eccentric bearing 30 causes the floating gear 81 in the next higher order, in cooperation with the w internal gear formed by the pins 44, 'to rotate the higher order shall cam ll one-tenth of a revolution. This is the usual means of carry in creepcarry accumulators. 
 The numeral wheel 24 has only nine teeth but it must be turned'a total of ten teeth to cause a full rotation of the resultant gear ll. This may easily be understood by. considering the coupling between the two wheels. The nulmral wheel flissecuredto thecouplingdiscllwhieh is coupled to the floating gear I! by the pin and hole combination "-43. The floating gear I! has nine teeth while the internal gear has ten teeth 44. As long as the eccentric is held immovable, a ten to nine ratio in rotation is introduced at this point. As the pins 44 are attached to the snail cam which is riveted to the resultant wheel ll, there is always a ten to nine or one and one-ninth ratio between the numeral and resultant wheels, This mode of operation is similar to that of prior creep-carry mechanisms. 
 Above the accumulator, and in a position which will permit easy observation, is a series of dial indicators 4! rotatably mounted on a shaft ll. Each dial indicator has a cylindrical surface on which is printed digits from 0 to 9, inclusive, and each dial is secured to a ten toothed gear ll 1 from which it receives its motion. 
 The gear I of the dial 41 is driven from the resultant gear ll of the accumulator thros h a floating idler gear ll journaled on a stud supported by a plate-like lever 32 which is pivoted on the sleeve which connects the dial with said gear I. The lever I! is rocked through a pin ands'lotconnection 58,",byanarm "pivoted on ashaftll. saidarmilissecuredtoathreecams 4|. 
armed lever 58, also pivoted on the shaft 51 and having a pin 8| engaging a slot in a follower lever 53, pivoted on the shaft 48. The shape of this lever is shown in Figs. 4. and 12. It has a branch 65 which is formed off horizontally to the right and which acts as a follower resting on the snail cam 4| of the next lower denomination. It is pressed against the cam by a spring 81 (Fig. 2) acting on an arm of the lever 58. The lever 52 is on the lefthand side of the dial (on the right in Figs. 3 and 12) and the lever 88 is on its righthand side, and the two levers swing in unison, constituting in effect a yoke whoserighthand arm rests on the snail cam 4| of next lower order and whose lefthand arm swings the idler pinion 5| slightly frontward and rearward, imparting a slight rotation to the dial to compensate for the fractional positions of the resultant gear 48. The pins 55 and 6| are in effect one'pin. The yoke 88, 52 serving the dial of highest order, is shown in rear view in Fig. 12. The arm 58 is made as a separate piece and is secured to the lever 58 by it. The above described construction is modified in the units place as will be described presently, and in the highest order there is an extra lever 88 and 58 for reasons that will appear hereinafter. 
 Fig. 2 shows the train in tens place, the accumulator in zero position and out of mesh with the actuator l4, and the followers 85 resting on the The arm 83 and snail cam 4| here shown are those for the tens wheel, but said arm 88 has its follower branch 85 on the units snail cam. The follower 65 shown in section, is resting on the tens snail cam and controls the gear 5| of hundreds order. In this position the dials 47 show zeros. If, however, the units wheel was turned to register some digit, the creep carry would turn the tens gear 48 counter-clockwise a corresponding fraction of a tooth space, which would tend to turn the tens-dial 41 to a fractional position. But the units wheel would cause its snail cam to swing the tens yoke 68, 52 rearward, causing idler gear 5| to roll on gear 48 tending to turn the tens dial clockwise to compensate for the fractional rotation of tens gear 48, and the tens dial would still register zero exactly. The follower engages the low part of the snail cam in zero position and the high part at'nine. 1 
 In order to swing all of the yokes 52, 88 rearward to lift the followers 85 off of the snail cams 4|,- the following means are provided. A bail bar 82 extending across the back of the machine is supported at its ends by angled arms 8| pivoted on the projected ends of the fixed shaft 28. Each arm 3| has at'its elbow a stud 38 playing in a cam slot 28 in a horizontal hand lever 28 pivoted on the end of the fixed shaft l3. The cam slot 28 consistsof' two dwells at different dis-' tances from the pivot-fl: and connected by an 51 of the levers 58 moves with it, but the levers the radial drop in its associated snail cam 4|, 
are used as tops to arrest the resultant wheels of the acc later at zero. Before swinging the accumulator into mesh for that operation, the levers 28 are operated to swing the bail bar 82 out of the way, so that, as far as said bar is concerned, the followers are free to drop onto the cams. 
- In units order (Fig. 11) the. sleeve 48 is held I in fixed position by a spacer block I88 secured to the righthand plate |8 of the accumulator frame. Also the arms 56 and 58 are spaced apart by a hub 76, and the pin 6| of the latter arm rests on any convenient fixed part when it is released from the restraint of the rod 82. When so released (Fig. 2) the other arms 88 assume different positions depending on the snail cams 4|, but this one always drops down its full extent, there being no snail cam to the right of it. 
 When the accumulator is clear, and the fol lowers rest on the snail cams (Fig. 2), the dials .all indicate zero; and when the yokes 88, 52 are lifted (Fig. 6) the floating pinions turn them back one tooth space to indicate nine.- In the latter position there is, of 'course no compensation of the dials and, when a total has been accumulated each dial stands in a position one tooth space short of the position of its associate resultant wheel 48, including the fractional position. Thus, if the total is 00777, the hundreds wheel 48 stands at 7.77, and when the yokes are-lifted as in Fig. 6, the hundreds dial will indicate 6.77. If then the parts be moved to the position of Fig. 2, the bodily-motion of the pinion 5| will turn the dial 4'! forward to the extent of 0.23 tooth space, when it will be arrested by the snail cam in tens place and the dial will indicate 7.- 
 'When the accumulated total includes a succession of nines, the resultant wheels 48 and cams 4| of the higher orders stand practically at zero, 
- and if the followers 85 were then allowed to endicate zero instead of nine. Also if said followincline. The construction is'such that if the forward ends of the levers 28 be depressed from the position shown in Fig. l, the yoke 32 8| will be swung clockwise, moving the bar 32 upward at'a forward inclination. When, however, the 
accumulator is swung into and out of mesh with 4 When the accumulator is swung clockwise into the meshing position shown in Fig. 6, the pivot Each of the levers 58 which ers were then used to arrest the snail cams in clearing the accumulator, they would arrest them at once, instead of allowing them to turn backwards the required nine teeth. Means are. therefore, provided, according to the present invention, to delay the engagement of these followers with their cams under the conditions mentioned. g 
 The dial indicators 41 are turned by the gears 58 and on one of the gear teeth of each of these wheels'isa lug 88 the same size as the tooth, but extending to one side thereof (see Figs. 4 and 6). A series of pawls l8 is-rotatably mounted on a rod H to sense these lugs as the wheels 58 turn under-the driving action of gears 5| and 48. The pawls 18 are each urged toward the shaft, 48 by a spring 72 attached to a lug on the backward extremity of the pawl. A small notch 18 is cut in the back of the pawl to be engaged by a latch member 74. The rod H is secured to the rockable frame pieces l8 so that the relative position changed as the accumulator is rocked into mesh. The series of latches I4 is rockably mounted on a series of pins 15 which are secured to extensions of the arms 63. The latches 14 are stressed by the springs 12 to move in a counterclockwise directlon as viewed in Figs. 2 and 6, but limit pins 11 keep the latches from engaging the pawls until the pawl's are forced out by the lugs 68 and the cam followers 65 have been lifted clear of the cams 4| as shown in Fig. 6, where the dial 41 is in position to indicate 9. 
 When the yokes 63, 52 are withdrawn to their rear positions by the action of the bar 32, all of the latches 14 are raised high enough to engage the shoulders of the pawls Ill, and they will engage such shoulders in every instance where the pawl is held back by the tooth 6B. Said pawl is so held when the resultant wheel and snail cam stand at or approximately at zero. 
Operation To enter an amount into the accumulator for addition, the accumulator shaft i1 is moved backward out of meshwith the key sectors l4 by pushing the handles 23 back. The keys i2, which are now free, are manually set at the number which is to be added into the accumulator, and the handles 23 pulled forward to mesh the numeral wheels 24 with the key sectors i4. Then the keys I2 are rotated to the zero or lowest position in any order desired and the amount is run into the accumulator. Any number of amounts may be added in this manner within the capacity of the machine. 
 If it is desired to subtract a number from the accumulator the numeral wheels 24 are engaged by the key segments i4 when the keys 12 stand at zero. Then the keys are moved-to the digits on the keyboard corresponding to the number to be subtracted, the accumulator shaft i1 is moved back out of mesh with sectors i4, and the keys returned to zero. 
 It will be obvious from the above that to add or subtract numbers it is only necessary to turn the numeral wheels of the accumulator in an additive or subtractive manner, no additional operation for tens carry being necessary. 
 When the accumulator is moved forward with rod 32 retained in'its backward position (see Fig. 6) pins 55 and GI acting against the sides oi slots 64 and 82, respectively, will liftarms 52 and 83 so that cam follower '65 is clear of snail cam 4| and the intermediate gear 5| has been rotated with respect to gears 40 and ill to turn the dial indicator back one-tenth of a revolution, or in other words, "one is subtracted from the readings of the dial indicators in every denominational order and a row of nines will be shown instead of zeros. After the numbers have been entered into the accumulator wheels, the accumulator mechanism is cammed back into the position shown in Fig. 2, and if the accumulator happens to be in its'zero position the cam followers 65 will sense the lowest portions thereof and move the intermediate gears 5i into their original position, thereby adding one to the dial indicators and showing a row of zeros. 
 At the end of each problem, it is necessary to clear the accumulator before the next problem is started and this is done as follows: 
 By means of handles 23 and 21, shaft if and short pins 30 are cammed to their forward positions while the keys i2 are at zero. This actlon allows the numeral wheels 24 to engage the key sectors i4 while the cam followers are urged into contact with the snail cams 4|. The keys l2 are then moved up as far as they will go, that is, they turn the accumulator mechanisms until the drop faces of the snail cams 4| move into contact with the cam followers 85. When the keys have all been rotated to this position the accumulator has been zeroized or cleared, the position of the keys on the keyboard shows the total, and the dial indicators 41 all read zero. 
 To illustrate the operation of the reading dial indicator wheels 41 let it be assumed that the number 7 has been entered into the accumulator in an additive direction in the units denominational order. This will cause the ten tooth resultant wheel 40 in that order to move seven teeth in counter-clockwise direction as viewed in Fig. 4. The sleeve 46 which carries the eccentric bearing 381s pinned to the resultant gear 40 of the units order and extends into the tens order where the eccentric bearing acts as a mounting for the floating gear 31. In the tens order the numeral wheel 24 is held stationary because it is meshed with a key sector which does not move. As the floating gear 31 is moved around by the eccentric bearing 38 it turns the tens resultant wheel 40 seven-tenths of a digit space or seven hundredths of a complete revolution. 
 In a similar anner the resultant wheel of the hundreds or er moves seven hundredths of a digit space or seven thousandths of a revolution. 
 In accordance with the proper sequence of operations, the shaft H was moved toward the front of the machine before the "7 was entered into the accumulator. This action lifted all the cam followers from the snail cams 4| and moved the intermediate gears 5| horizontally with respect to the gears 40 and 50. The effect of this motion, as explained above, is to subtract a unit from each of the reading indicator dials. hence they would show a row of 9's" before the 7 was added. After the 7" is added the units indicator dial shows a 6" and the tens indicator dial is in a position which shows a portion of both the 9" and 0 figures, that is, the dial has been rotated to a position to indicate nine and seven-tenths. In a similar manner the hundreds order indicator will be at its nine and seven hundredths position and the thousands order will be at its nine and seven thousandths position. 
 Shaft I l is now moved back to its first position (shown in Fig. 2) where the detents 2 again engage the numeral wheels 24 and the cam followers 65 engage some portion 'of the snail cams 4|. The snail cam in the units order has been turned seven tenths of a complete revolution and the cam follower will come to rest on a portion that is equal to seven tenths of a maximum displacement produced by the cam. In a similar manner the cams in the tens, hundreds, and thousands orders will displace the cam followers .67, .007, and .0007, respectively, of the maximum amount. 
 when shaft i7 is moved back, the indicator dials on those orders in which there has been no accumulator movement will turn one digit space, from 9 to 0. All other dials will be moved forwardly one digit space minus the amount registered on the snail cams in the next lower order. That is, the units dial will always ,be moved forwardly one digit space because there is no lower order. Thetens indicator will be moved forwardly one space minus the amount .7) that is due to the position of the cam in the units order; Since the tens indicator stood at 9.7 the final position will indicate a 0." 
 The hundreds indicator will, in a similar manner, be moved forwardly one space minus the amount on the snail cam of the tens order and the final position will also .be 0." All the other indicators will be subjected to similar motions and the net result will be that all the dials read except the units order which reads "7." 
Let it be assumed now that 93 is to be added to the 7 already set up in the accumulator. 
The tens key is set at 9" and the units key at 33' Then the accumulator shaft I7 is moved forward by the manual movement of handles 23. The keys are returned to the 0 marks and the shaft I1 is moved back to its previous position. 
The successive movements of the accumulator wheels 40 and the indicator dials" are best shown by the following table in which is recorded the action when 7" and 93 are added by the present machine. 
 The correct result 100 is indicatedby the reading indicator dials while the amount of creep still exists in the accumulator mechanism. 
 In order to explain the operation of the latch 70 and its associated pawl 14, let it be assumed that the accumulator has been cleared and then a one subtracted. The successive steps of this operation will be as follows: 
 With the keys at their zero positions (Fig. 2) shaft I1 is moved forward (Fig. 6) This changes the indicating dials from a line of zeros to a line of nines as hereinbefore described. The yokes 63, 52 are all swung back to the position shown in Fig. 6, bringing all of the latches 14 to the level of the notches 13 in the pawls 10. As all of the dials are brought to their nine positions, all of the pawls I0 will be moved by the lugs 68 back into locking engagement with said latches as shown in Fig. 6. Then the units order key i2 is moved up one digit space on the keyboard, wh ch action turns the units order accumulator wheel one digit space in thenegative or subtractive direction and moves the indicating dial a like amount, thereby indicating an eight instead of a nine. The term order accumulator is moved only a small amount due to the creep from the units order. As the units order movement is a minus one" the tens order creep is one-tenth of a tooth space in the negative direction, some of which is absorbed by the backlash and loosely fitting gears. The final position of the tens order mechanism is indicated in Fig. 6 where the snail cam ll is shown with its high point just under the cam follower 65. Theoretically, the hundreds wheel is moved .01 tooth space, the thousands wheel .001 tooth I space, etc. In practice, these movements are negligible so that, practically, these higher wheels all register zero. 01 course, the wheels would be brought to these same positions by adding 99999 instead of subtracting l. 
 Shaft I! is now moved back to its reading position and the units order dial indicator moves to its nine position. When the units wheel was turned from.0 to 9, the tens dial 41 was turned from 9 to 8.9. .This dial now starts to move toward its zero position but the cam follower 65 in this order meets the snail cam ll of the units orderwhich stands at its nine position. The tens dial indicator will, therefore, stop at its nine position. 
 As long as the tens indicator remains in its nine position, the lug 88 on gear 50 occupies the position shown in Fig? 6 and holds the latch 10 in a rearward position so that the point of pawl H pivoted-to the yoke 53, 52 of hundreds order engages the notch I3 and holds said yoke in a raised position regardless of the positionv above the tens order, the latches l0 and pawls l4 cooperating to retain the reading of nine in each order notwithstanding the fact that the snail cams are not in position to hold up the follower 65. It should be pointed out that the latch and pawl mechanism does not rotate the nines into position when a one is subtracted, the mechanism merely holds them there and prevents the dial indicators from rotating back to zero when shaft I1 is pushed back into'reading position. 
 It may also be noted that, though all of the higher yokes 63, 52 are held up by their latches 74,- 10, due to the fact that the units wheel stands at 9, there is no cumulative error in the positions of successive yokes. In the devices for printing significant zeros in listing adding machines, when the thousands hammer latch is raised, it raises the hundreds latch which in turn raises the tens latch and that the units; and if there is any. looseness in the parts, each successive latch is raised slightly less than the one-at its left. In the present mechanism, the effect of the nine position of the units wheel is carried back successively to the tends, hundreds, etc., orders; but in each order the yoke is held up, not by the yoke at its right, but by its own latch 14 engaging its pawl "I0, which pawls are mounted on fixed pivots, so that all of the yokes are held at exactly the same height. This results from the fact that the yokes are all first raised to their full height, and each one is then locked up by its own latch devices. 
 In order to describe the unlatchlng of the pawl and latch combination, let it be assumed that the row of nines is left in the machine and a one added to it. The operation will be as follows: 
 With the shaft I! in its rear position, the first or units key I! is set at "l" on the keyboard, 
then shaft i1 is moved forward and the key is returned to its zero position. When the shaft II was moved to its forward position, the units dial indicator moved to "8 but the others remained at "9 since they were latched up or held by the snail cam. When the 1 is added the "8"is changed to a 9. When, thereafter, shaft I1 is again moved back to the reading position, the units indicator moves to a showing, while the remaining dials retain their 9" position for an instant because the latch 18 holds up the lever 68 by means of pawl ll. However, as the units indicator wheel is turned to its zero position the lug 68 on wheel 50 is turned out of contact positio'n and latch 18 resumes its normal position (rotating clockwise in Fig. 6). This releases pawl 14 and the yoke 83, 52 in the tens order drops to normal position, moving inter mediate gear forward and changing the tens dial indicator from a "9" to a 0. This action removes the lug 68 in the tens order from the cooperating latch and the same train of operations continues as described above, all the orders being unlatched and normalized in sequential order. The time required for a complete unlatching of all orders depends upon the inertia of the parts and the spring tension provided in springs 81 and 12. In a machine made in accordance with standards usually found in such calculating mechanisms, the total unlatching time for all orders in succession was less than one-fifth of a second. The operation just described occurs on a succession of zeros in the total, and it is the only occasion in the operation of the accumulator when an action occurs successively from order to order. This successive action occurs when the wheels are moved out of mesh to read a total, and at that time the small fraction of a second does not slow the operation of the machine. The dials come to zero more quickly than the eye can read them. 
 When a number of amounts have been entered into the accumulator and the total noted, it may be desired to zeroize the machine so that another series of numbers may be entered. This operation is accomplished as follows: 
Shaft I1 is moved forward by pulling levers II to their forward positions. Shaft 82 is also moved upward and forward by levers 28. The keys I! are then moved from their zero position upward as far as they will go. The result on the keyboard is the same total that had been accumulated in the accumulator units. The dials indicator wheels in this position show a row of nines but, when shafts i1 and 32 are moved backward, the dials show zero and the machine is normalized and ready for another adding operation. 
 During the above operation, the forward position of shaft 32 allows the cam followers 85 to rest on the snail cams ll, hence when the keys are moved upward the snail cams move in a subtractive direction until stopped by the cam followers engaging the radial portions of the cams. M i 
 A study of the schematic diagram (Fig. 13) may. serve to clarify the principle of the mechanism. Here the several dial trains are shown each in face view, and the levers and latches which control them are distorted in shape accordingly. Each pair of levers 52 and 88 is shown connecting two denominations, being connected to swing together by the built-up lever I6, ll, so that when a lever 68 has its follower 65 resting on the snail cam of one order, it controls the position of the lever 52 and, consequently, of the floating pinion SI of next higher order. The bar 32 is represented by a longitudinal bar having lugs which control the lower ends of the levers 58. If this bar was moved to the right, or if the balance of the mechanism was moved to the left, it would lift all of the followers off of the cams 4|. In units place, the single lever 58 is limited in its clockwise motion by a fixed stop 582. In the highest order, the single follower lever 63 can also be lifted away by the bar 32. It is believed that the distorted forms of the latching devices l0, 74 will be recognized. That in highest order is differently distorted in form, because the lever 63 must be'locked up directly instead of indirectly through the parts 52, 55 and BI as in the other denominations. 
 In this Fig. 13, the accumulator registers a total of 00999 which is indicated on the dials H in its true amount. The precise instant represented is that preparatory to clearing the totalizer. The bar 32 has been shifted to the left (upward and forward in the illustrated machine) and the accumulator has been swung into engagement with the racks M. It will be noted that the snail cams 4i stand as follows: units at 9, tens at 9.9, hundreds practically at 0, thousands practically at 1 (theoretically at 0.999) and tens of thousands practically at 0.1. Before the accumulator was swung out of mesh after adding 999 (that is to say, when the parts were in Fig. 6 position), the units dial stood at 8 and the pawl 18 was swung clockwise where its notch was out of reach of the tens latch 14. The tens dial 4! stood at 8.9, so nearly 9 that it had deflected pawl 10 so that the latter engaged the hundreds latch 14 and was conditioned to prevent the hundreds yoke 63, 52 from dropping. The hundreds dial stood practically at 9 as shown. The thousands dial stood practically at 0, and, therefore, did not cause pawl I8 and latch 14 to lock the tens of thousands yoke up. The extra lever 53 bearing on the highest snail cam was latched up, because its dial stood nearly at 9. 
 When the bar 32 was shifted to the position shown, all of the levers 58 which had been held in their extreme positions, tended to rock clockwise, and all of them did so rock until arrested in some way. In the case of the hundreds and thousands wheels, this was only the slight motion required to take up whatever clearance there was between the latch 14 and the notch in the pawl 10. At the beginning of the movement of the bar 32, the right-hand pawl III was not held back in the path of latch 14 and this yoke 83, 52 and lever 58, therefore, followed the bar 32 until the follower 65 was arrested by the high part of the units cam 4|. There was no snail cam to arrest the units lever 52, which, therefore, made its complete movement until arrested by its lever 58 striking the fixed stop 58!. In this movement the units dial 41 turned from its 8 to its 9 position and deflected the pawl 18; but by that time the latch 14 had already moved upward (downward in the illustrated machine) and was out of range of the notch in the pawl. It will be perceived that this first pawl 10 and latch H are not needed and may be omitted. This one-tenth movement turned the tens dial from 8.9 to 9 exactly. .Before the shifting of the bar 32, the hundreds dial had stood at 8.99, and its position was practically unchanged. To the eye, 
this position is indistinguishable from 9. The thousands dial had stood practically at 0, where it was retained by the action of the latch 14, etc. 
Being in that position, its tooth 68 had not defiected the pawl Ill, and consequently the yoke 63, 52 for the tens of thousands wheel moved down until arrested at nine-tenths of its full It is turned whole tooth spaces by the numeral wheel 24 of the same order, ten-tooth spaces by the numeral wheel of next lower order, hundredth-tooth spaces by the next wheel, etc. The point or-short zone in which the latch devices 14, are needed, is in a fractional position more than nine and not' quite ten, but so nearly ten that the follower would or might fall in front of the radial drop of the snail cam. It will be noted from the above description, and referring to the units order, that the fact that that wheel stands at 9 is not by itself sufficient to set the latch. The next latch is set by the joint action of the tens wheel registering 9 and the units wheel also registering 9, the latter condition adding 0.9 tooth space to the tens snail cam and to. 
the tens dial 41, bringing the former into the critical zone and bringing the lug 68 on the latter into position to set the pawl 10. 
In the hundreds order, the hundreds numeral 'wheel 24 turned the snail cam to 9. the tens numeral wheel advanced it 0.9 further, and the units numeral wheel 0.09 further, bringing it theoretically to 9.99, lacking only 0.01 tooth space of the zero position. Let us assume that there is so much looseness and inaccuracy in the mechthe follower 65 would fall to the low part of the cam. Nevertheless, it will not so fall, due to the latch being set by reason of the units wheel standing at 9. It is then the units wheel, causing the tens latch to be set and preventing the follower from falling on the tens cam, that indirectly retains the hundreds latch set, and cause the hundreds dial to register correctly and prevents the snail cam in hundreds order from being arrested prematurely on clearing. The 0.01 tooth space on the hundreds wheel is, in effect, measured on the units wheel, where it is a whole tooth space. v 4 
 The 0.1 tooth space which the tens wheel lacks of reaching zero, is a whole tooth space on the units wheel and, by the mechanism of the invention, it is measured on the latter wheel. Also, the 0.01 tooth space on the hundreds wheel is anism that, with the tens wheel standing at 9.9,v 
that unnecessary. 
 Creep-carry accumulators are usually cleared by moving the actuating racks subtractlvely one at a time, beginning with units, and this has been one of the principal draw-backs of such accumulatcrs. The present accumulator may be cleared in that way, but the present improvements make All orders may be cleared simultaneously, as is commonly done'with accumulators of other types; 
 l4 be moved subtractively in unison, each until arrested by the radial drop of its associate snail cam striking the follower 65, the operation is as follows: The units wheel is obviously free to turn nine teeth, when it will be arrested to indicate a total of 9. The tens snail cam already stood at 9.9 and its follower was held off by the units cam. If the high part of this cam was not already safely underits follower, it will move under it immediately the motion begins. During the first tooth-space of rotation, the tens ing 68 will move to its 8" position, releasing measured on the units wheel, where it is a whole tooth space. Thus, the difliculty in creep carry accumulators, of measuring fractional tooth spaces. is eliminated. The mechanism is set by whole tooth spaces. 
 Even in the example given hereinbefore, where one was subtracted from a clear accumulator and the highest wheel theoretically lacked 0.0001 tooth s ace of zero, the latches were all set, the dials all indicated 9, and, as will presently aprear, if all of the wheels be cleared by moving the actuators in unison, this last wheel would yield 9 along with the others. The minute fraction of a tooth space was measured on the units wheel, where it was a whole tooth space. 
he pawl 10 and'permitting the tens follower 65 to fail onto the snail (mm. The hundreds snail cam stood at 0, and its high part immediately advanced under its follower. Meanwhile, the hundreds lug 58 was moving away from its pawl 1 which releasedthe latch 14 at some point before said lug reached its 8 position; and by that t me the high part of the snail cam was safely under the follower. lfn short, by the time the racks have advanced and the wheels have rotated one tooth space, all of the snail cams that had stood practically at zero but whose real total was nine, will have gotten safely under their followers, and the clearing of the accumu-- lator will then proceed much as in accumulators of other types. As each resultant wheel approaches its zero position. it gradually eliminates the fract onal position of the next wheel to the left andwhen all have reached zero all such fractional displacements will have been eliminated. 
 It may be worth while to trace this elimination of fractional displacements more in detail as it occurs in the thousands and tens of thousands orders in the above example. The total in thousands place was 0 but the snail cam stood practically at l, and during the first toothspace movement in the simultaneous advance of the racks M. the thousands cam 4| and rack l4 advanced beyond zero almost a tooth space before being arrested. Reverting to the creepcarry mechanism Fig. 4), when the eccentric 38 rotates. the interaction of the floating gear 31 and the internal gear 4|, 44, tends to produce a relative rotation of the two gears. In adding, the internal gear turns forward, because the floating gear is prevented from turning by reason of the engagement of the gear 24 with the rack; but in the clearing operation now being described. after the first tooth-space movement, the snail cam is locked and the rack is in a movable condition. At this time, the hundreds wheel stands at 8.8 and is turning subtractively, turn ng the thousands eccentric 38 with it. The continued rotation of this eccentric, therefore, rotates the floating gear 31 and gear 24 in thousands place in the reverse direction, and gradually brings the thousands rack l4 back to its zero position. This it can do, because the hunthousands rack. A somewhat similar action oc- I With the parts in. the positions shown in Fig. 13, if all of the racks curs in the tens of thousands place, but to a less extent. 
 The above analysis is made on the assumption that all of the racks H are started together in the clearing operation. However, the racks may be moved one at a time in any desired order, as will be apparent on tracing the movements on the diagram, Fig. 13. 
 The range in the rotation of a dial 41 during which the lug 68 should or may cause the pawl 10 to engage and retain the latch 14, is not inflexible, except that the followers 85 must be held off of the snail cam until the high part of the latter is safely under the former. How long that is, depends upon the clearances allowed and the looseness or backlash in the actual mechanism. As far as restoring the accumulator to zero is concerned, the lug 68 could extend rightward in Figs. 6 and 13 for several tooth spaces without any harm. For the purposes of reading the total from the indicator dials, however, the 
pawl Ill should not be held deflected too long. If the stud 68 covered the seven position, for example, the yoke 52, 63 of tens order, would be locked up in some instances when the follower should rest on the snail cam, with the result that the hundreds dial 4'! would show a fractional displacement." In the instance illustrated in the drawing the pawl I is deflected far enough to engage the latch 14, at some point between zero and nine; and it has dropped back to release the latch by the time when the dial reaches eight. In some of the claims the somewhat indefinite range in which the latch 14 is engaged by the pawl III is expressed by the phrase "approximately nine." 
 The means for rotating the floating gear 31 comprising the three studs 43 playing in the three holes 42 in the disc 36, which disc is secured to the numeral gear 24, is not claimed herein but is claimed in another application of mine While I have described what I consider to be a highly desirable embodiment of my invention, it is obvious that many changes in form could be made without departing from the spirit of my invention, and I, therefore, do not limit myself to the exact form herein shown and described, nor to anything less than the whole of my invention as hereinbefore set forth, and as hereinafter claimed. 
 What I claim as new, and desire to secure by Letters Patent, is: 
 1. In an accumulator of the class described, having a plurality of denominational orders, each of which contains a numeral gear and a resultant gear, coupling means connecting the numeral gear of each order to a resultant gear in the same order, eccentric coupling means connecting the resultant gear of each order to the resultant gear in the next higher order in a ten to one ratio to transmit tens carry amounts, means forvisually indicating the accumulated amounts in each denominational order, said means comprising a floating pinion meshing with the resultant gear and an indicating wheel rotated by the floating pinion, and compensating means for removing carry amounts less than one from said indicating wheels, said compensating means comprising a snail cam rotating with the resultant gear-and a cam follower engaging said snail cam and controlling the position of the floating pinion in the next higher order.- 
2. An accumulator of the class described comprising a plurality of denominational order sections, at numeral wheel in each order by which amounts may be entered into that order, a resultant wheel in each order for determining the accumulated value of the amounts entered, eccentric coupling means for connecting the numeral wheel in each order to the resultant wheel in the same order, reduction differential planetary gearing coupling the resultant wheel in each denominational order to the resultant wheel of the next higher order, means for visually indicating the accumulated amounts in each denominational order, said means comprising a floating pinion and a dial indicator wheel, said pinion'being connected between said resultant wheel and said dial indicator wheel; compensating means for removing the fractional carry movement from the dial indicator wheels, said means comprising a snail cam rotating with each resultant wheel and a cam follower engaging said snail cam and controlling the position of said floating pinion; latching means for holding the cam follower disengaged from the snail cam when the dial indicator wheel stands at or approximately at the nine position, said latching means comprising a lug on the dial indicator wheel, a pawl engaged by said lug, and a latch mounted on the lever arm on which the cam follower is secured and adapted to engage the pawl when set by said lug. 
 3. A visual indicator mechanism for showing the true value of the accumulator actuated by a series of actuators and having a creep carry mechanism and a resultant gear for each denominational order, said indicator mechanism comprising a snail cam rotating with each resultant gear, a visual indicator dial geared to each of said resultant gears by means of a floating pinion, rockable lever arms on which the pinions are rotatably mounted, cam follower mechanisms for positioning said lever arms in accordance with the rotation of said snail cams, means to disengage said followers from the cams. and latching means for retaining a cam follower disengaged from the snail cam when the visual indicator dial of the next lower order stands at or approximately at the nine position, said latching means comprising a lug on each dial indicator wheel. pawls engaged by said lugs, and a series of latches mounted on the lever arms on which the cam followers are secured. 
 4. The combination with a series of accumulator actuators, of a creep-carry accumulator having in each denomination a numeral wheel driven by its actuator and a resultant wheel driven by its numeral wheel and by the creepcarry mechanism from the next lower resultant wheel in such manner as to move said resultant wheels to fractional positions when numbers are added, a snail cam rotating with each resultant wheel, a dial wheel for each resultant wheel, a floating pinion to transmit motion from each resultant wheel to its dial wheel, a movable member on which said floating pinion is Journaled, each such movable member above that of lowest order having a follower to cooperate with the snail cam of the next lower order, means for moving the accumulator to bring said numeral wheels into and out of mesh with said actuators, means acting when the accumulator is moved into engagement as aforesaid to lift said followers oil of the snail cams and thereby rotate said dial wheels in subtractive direction so that when the accumulator is in mesh each dial with said cams and thus to add pinion being connected wheel stands in a position one digit space short of the position including fractional movements occupied by its associated resultant wheel and said means acting when the accumulator is moved out of mesh to restore said followers to contact on each dial wheel one-tenth of'the tens complement of the amount indicated on the resultant wheel of the next lower order thereby eliminating from the dial wheels the fractional displacement of the resultant wheels of the accumulator. 
 5. The combination with a series of accumulator actuators, of a creep-carry accumulator, a numeral wheel in each order by which amounts may be entered into that order by the associate actuator, a resultant wheel in each order for registering the accumulated value of the amounts entered, differential gearing connecting the resultant wheel in each order with the numeral wheel in the same order and with the resultant wheel of the next lower order, means for visually indicating the accumulated amounts in each denominational order, said means comprising a floating pinion and a dial indicator wheel, said between said resultant wheel and said dial indicator wheel, a snail cam rotating with each resultant wheel, a movable member on which said floating pinion is journaled, each such movable member above that of lowest order having a follower to cooperate with the snail cam of the next lower order, means for moving the accumulator to bring said numeral wheels into and out of mesh with said actuators, means acting when the accumulator is moved into engagement as aforesaid to lift said followers oil the snail cams and thereby rotate said dial wheels in subtractive direction so that when the accumulator is in mesh each dial wheel stands in a position one unit space short of the position including fractional movements occupied by its associated resultant wheel and said means acting when the accumulator is moved sition including fractional movements occupied byitsassociatedresultantwheehlatchingmeans forretaininganysnailcamfollowerinitsdissaid actuators when the snail cam stands in a fractional position between 1 and II, said disengagi g means acting when the accumulator is moved out of mesh to restore all of said unlatched followers to contact with said cams and thus to add to each associated dial wheel one-tenth of the tens complement of the amount indicated on the resultant wheel of the next lower order, dial wheels the fractional displacement of the lower resultant wheels while retaining said displacement in the dial wheels in those orders where the followers have been latched. 
'7. The combination with a series of accumulater actuators, of a creep-carry accumulator having in each denomination a numeral wheel driven by its actuator, a resultant wheel driven by said numeral wheel and by the creep-carry mechanism from the next lower resultant wheel, and a dial driven by each resultant wheel, means for moving the accumulator to bring said nu- .meral wheels into and out of mesh with said actuators, means acting when the accumulator is moved into engagement as aforesaid to sub tract from the dial indicators one tenth of the tens complement of the amounts indicated on the respective resultant wheels of the next lower order, and the same means acting when the accumulator is moved out of t as aforesaid to add to the dial indicators one tenth of the tens complement of the amounis indicated on the respective resultant wheels of the next lower order. 
 8. In a creep carry accumulator having in each order a numeral wheel achiated whole tooth spaces and a resultant wheel rotated through differential gearing whole tooth spaces by the numeral wheel of the same order and fractional out of mesh to restore said followers to contact withsaid cams and thus to add on each dial wheel one-tenth of the tens complement of the amount indicated on the resultant wheel of the next lower order, thereby eliminating from the dialwheels the fractional displacement of the resultant wheels of the accumulator. 
 6. The combination with a series of accumulator-actuators, of a creep-carry accumulator, a 
numeral wheel in each order by which amounts may be entered into that order by the associate actuator, a resultant wheel in each order for registering the accumulated value of the amounts entered, differential gearing connecting the resultant wheel in each order to the numeral wheel in the same order and with the resultant wheel of the next lower order, a dial wheel, a floating pinion connected between said dial wheel and said resultant wheel, a snail cam rotating with each resultant wheel, a movable member on which said floating pinion is journaled, each such movable member above that of lowest order having a follower to cooperate with the snail cam of the next lower order, means for moving the accumulator to bring said numeral wheels into and out of mesh with said actuators, disengaging means acting when the accumulator is moved into engagement as aforesaid to lift said followers of! the snail cams and thereby rotate said dial w wheels in subtractive direction so that when the accumulator is in meslf'ea'ch dial wheel stands latching condition when tooth spaces by the numeral wheels of lower order if any, the combination of cam followers, snail cams one rotating with the resultant wheel of each order and having its lower point at zero position, means to move said followers out of engagement with their cams, and to release them for reengagement, latching devices one for each follower to retain its follower out of engagement, and means in a certain order controlled jointly by the resultant wheel of the same order and a wheel of lower order to set the latching device in the resultant wheel of said certain order theoretically registers a total greater than nine and approximating but less than ten. 
 9. In a creep carry accumulator having in each order a numeral wheel actuated whole tooth spaces and a resultant wheel rotated through differential gearing whole tooth spaces by the numeral wheel of the same order and tooth spaces by'the numeral wheels of lower order if any, the combination of stopsto arrest the resultant wheels at zero when clearing the accumulator, cooperating stop surfaces on said resultant wheels, means to move said sfoll out of engagement with their said resultant wheels and to release them for @Wa. latching devices for said stops eachtoretamitsssldstopont of engagement, and meansin a certain order controlled jointly by the resultantiwheel of the same order and a wheel of lower order to set the latching device in latching condition when astheaccmnulatorismoved thereby eliminating from such I the resultantwheel in said certain order then.- 11. In a creep carry accumulator haying in retically mister; e total sreeter than nine and each order a numeral wheel actuated whole tooth approximating but lessthan ten. spaces and a resultant wheel rotated through difsecured to each resultant wheel, a floating pinion driven 10 near. movable members onwhich said floating a cam follower rocking said rocknble arm and to impart small increments of rotation to said mldnl the P phery of said snail cm of the 5 flouting gears, means to move slid followers out next lower order. means for lifting said followers of engagement with their cams and to release from their cams and thereby subtracting from them for reengmment, latches to retain said each dial indicator one-tenth of the tens oomplefollowers ed, and means actuated by mentoftheamotmtlndieatedontheresultant. saidfloatinzzearstosetseldlatcheseachindewheel of the next lower order when the accumum pendence on the position of its floating gear. 
theirchmsandflheleby HAROLDRMIXER.