Accounting machine 
US-2357455-A
Ibm
1944-09-05
https://patents.google.com/patent/US2357455A/en
, 1944. J. w. BRYCE ACCOUNTING MACHINE Filed Oct. 30, 1940 9 Sheets-Sheet 1 INVE OR. 
ATTORNEY. 
AVAILABLE COPY. 
Sept. 5, 1944. J. w. BRYCE ACCOUNTING MACHINE Filed Oct. 50, 1940 9 Sheets-Sheet 3 INVENTOR. 
BY 5 Z Ail DRIVEY. 
Sept.- 5, 1944. JQ w. BRYCE 2,357,455 
ACCOUNTING MACHINE Filed Oct. 30, 1940 9 Sheets-Sheet 4 illur-x pg 190 HI im I NV EN TOR. 
ATTORNEY. 
Sept. 5, 1944., J.'w. BRYCE ACCOUNTING MACHINE Filed Oct. 30, 1940 9 Sheets-Sheet 5 m ATTORNEY. I 
 p 1944- J. w. BRYCE I 2,357,455 
accoumme MACHINE Filed Oct. 30, 1940 9 Sheets-Sheet 6 K JOHN no: Acq. 25 A 32 3 5mm FIG. 
DA TE CHIC/(5 LENS/7'5 Ill A/VCE 87.46 10.00 13a7.sa\ 70 157.00 1230.00 Q 561.00 1000.00 1669.00 
VIII/I110WIIII)Y7)7 II/IIIIII0 y -1 --/72a I 9 4- 3 f 0 I! 13 I r vac INVENTOR. 
 I. BY 
ATTORNEY. 
Sept. 5, 1944. .1; w. BRYCE 2,357,455 
- ACCOUNTING MACHINE Filed Oct. so, 1940 9 shegts-sheet 7 FIG-.14 a. 
Sept. 5, 1944. 
' J. w. BRY C E MACHINE Filed Oct. 30, 1940 ACCOUNT ING 9 Sheets-Sheet 8 s a u M A TTORNEY. 
Patented Sept. 5, 1944 UNITED STATES PATENT OFFICE AC COUNTING MACHINE Application October 30, 1940, Serial No. 363,509 
7 Claims. 
 This invention relates broadly to accounting machines employing balance recording and reading devices, and more specifically to balance entering mechanism coordinated with automatic ledger sheet feeding control, so that balance, 
amounts may be represented in code on a ledger sheet, and sensed thereon as the sheet reaches a posting position, and thereby entered into an accumulator in which other items are added from individual records for the formation of a new balance. 
 An object of the present invention resides in the provision of means for printing numerically on the ledger sheet new balances, and thereafter recording in code that said new balances in a predetermined area on the ledger sheet so that the sheet may be analyzed later when reinserted for controlling suitable balance deriving means. 
 Another object of the present invention resides in the provision of means in combination with a ledger posting machine for recording the balance amounts in code so that upon reinsertion in the machine the said code representations can be obliterated and replaced by similar code repersentations designating a new balance. 
 Another object of the present invention resides in the provision of means for printing numerically on the ledger sheet new balances derived from the accumulator, and thereafter recording magnetically in code the said new balances so that the sheet may be analyzed later when reinserted for the edition or subtraction of additional items. 
 Another object of the present invention resides in the provision of means for obliterating the previous code balances recorded magnetically on the ledger sheets when reinserted in the machine and recording magnetically thereon the new balances derived from the accumulator. 
 Another object of the present invention resides in the provision of means for automatically coordinating balance printing, reading, obliterating and accumulating mechanisms with ledger sheet feeding means. The mechanisms are incorporated in a record controlled machine wherein the records are arranged in groups, and group control devices detect changes in group designations on the records. After the entry of the last item associated with a certain ledger account, a group change is detected, a total printing cycle is initiated, and the ledger sheet is ejected. Before ejection, the total or balance amount is printed numerically, and provision is made for recording at the same time a marginal magnetic designation on the ledger sheet for indicating the position of the last printed line which designation is utilized, upon reinsertion thereof, for causing the ledger sheet to be brought into proper posting position. Upon completion of each printing or posting operation, control means are automatically rendered effective to cause the advancement of the ledger sheet so that the new balance may be recorded magnetically in code in a predetermined area, on the said sheet. Uponreinsertion of the ledger sheet the recorded balance formed thereon is analyzed and entered in the balance accumulator (before item entries from the records are effected) and then obliterated before balance accumulating, printing, and magnetic code recording operations are effected. 
 Another object of the present invention resides in the provision of means for recording magnetically the balances in code, at all times, in the same predetermined area on the ledger sheet. 
 Still another object of the present invention resides in the provision of means for preventing resetting operations to occur immediately following the printing operations, and rendering the reset means operativeafter predetermined ledger sheet feeding operations and readout operations from the accumulator to effect magnetic record-- ing in code of the new balance set up therein. 
 Other objects of the invention will be pointed out in the following description and claims and illustrated in the accompanying drawings, which disclose, by way of example, the principle of the invention and the best mode, which has been contemplated, of applying that principle. 
In the drawings: 
 Fig. 1 is a side elevation view of the card feeding and analyzing mechanism showing the card feed declutching devices. 
 Fig. 2 is a detailed view of the controlling devices of the accumulator resetting mechanism. 
 Fig. 3 is a central section of the essential elements of the printing mechanism, and showing in part the ledger sheet feeding mechanism and associated reading and recording magnets. 
 Fig. 4 is a detail view of the ledger sheet stop member device. 
 Fig. 4a is a view showing in detail the construction of the extension finger I84 positioned in locking slat I85. 
 5 shows a portion of a perforated record car Fig. 6 is a perspective view of a representative portion of the adding and subtracting mechanism of the accumulator. 
 Fig. 7 is an elevation view of the elusive one unit entry device of the accumulator. 
 Fig. 8 is a sectional view showing the ledger sheet feeding mechanism and control devices therefor, and including the various reading and recording magnets associated therewith. 
Fig. 9 is an end view of the mechanism shown in F1g 8, 
 Figs. 10 and 10a. are detailed views of a homing device employed in the ledger sheet feeding mechanism. 
 Fig. 11 is a plan view of the magnetic ledger sheet. 
Fig. 12 is a sectional view of the ledger sheet. 
Fig. 13 is a timing diagram of various control elements of the machine. 
 Figs. 14a to 140 together form a wiring diagram of the electrical controls of the machine. 
 The balance printing and magnetic recording devices, the magnetic reading devices, and the accumulating controls of the present invention are coordinated with a novel ledger sheet posting control mechanism and all of said devices are incorporated in a tabulating machine of the kind disclosed in U. S. Patent No, 2,126,621. The machine is designed to sense the data representations on perforated record cards, and add the numerical data thereof. The cards are arranged in groups according to group numbers perforated therein, and the machine is set for tabulating control, so that a record is printed of the total amounts of the groups. Each group number usually corresponds with, or relates to, some ledger number which identifies an account. The tabulating machine exercises control over operation of the ledger posting sheet feeding devices through the group control devices. The starting of card feed operations is delayed automatically until initial ledger sheet feeding and reading operations are effected. Upon entry of the old balance in the accumulator the code recordings thereof are obliterated on the ledger sheet. After a control break, printing of the new balance is effected, followed by positioning of th ledger sheet to a common reference point,-before a magnetic recording in code of the new balance is made. Resetting or the baalnce accumulator is prevented until the code recording operations mentioned have been completed. Additional novel controls and interlocks between the said devices are described hereinafter. 
 Before describing the ledger posting operations, it is deemed advisable to describe the various mechanisms employed in the machine and the purposes thereof, so that the coordination of the balance entry and recording mechanisms therewith may be more readily understood. 
 The tabulating machine of U. 8. Patent No. 2,126,621 to which the features of the present invention are applied is similar in most respects to the machine shown in U. S. Patent No. 1,976,617, issued October 9, 1934. This latter patent illustrate and explains in more extensive detail the manner of organization and mode of operation of the various units of a well known type of tabulating machine. In the present machine the reset motor RM of the Lake and Daly machine is omitted and the resetting mechanism is driven from the main driving motor, known as the tabulating motor, to thus constitute a single motor machine. In the present application, these mechanisms will be explained in only as much detail as will be necessary to explain the manner in which the objects of the invention may be realized. 
Card feeding mechanism The card feeding mechanism shown-in Fig. l is similar to the usual feed devices except that provision is made in the form of a clutching device for interrupting the card feeding operations without stopping the accumulating drive mechanism. The card analyzing brushes are indicated at UB and LB, and the record cards C are successively advanced by picker 9 to pairs of feed rollers III, which serve to advance the cards past the upper and lower brushes in succession. The shafts upon which rollers III are mounted are provided with gears at their extremities and arranged as shown for operation by a main driving gear II, which is freely mounted upon a shaft 8 and which has connection with an arm I5 through a sleeve I. Arm I5 carries springpressed clutching dog I6 normally held in the position shown by an, armature latch II which is controlled by the clutch magnet I8. Between gear II and arm I5 are a gear I3 and a clutch driving disk I4 freely rotatable upon the sleeve 1 (said gear I3 being secured to the said clutch driving disk I4). Gear I3 has gear train connections generally designated I2 with the pulley shaft Ii which is in operation as long as the main driving motor is operative. 
and the card feeding mechanism will cause cards to be advanced past the brushes UB and LB, and feeding operations will continue as long as magnet It remains energized. During balance entry and total taking cycles of operation, magnet I8 is deenergized and card feeding will not take place during such cycles. 
Printing mechanism The printing mechanism is shown in Fig. 3 
v where the usual so -called listing shaft I9 carries a clutch driving element 20. Shaft I9 has direct driving connection with the constantly running shaft 6 (Fig. 1) so that clutch driving element 20 may rotate continuously. The listing cam 2| is freely carried on the shaft I9 and provided with a spring-pressed clutching dog 22 adapted for engagement with the driving element 20. Dog 22 is normally held out of engagement by arm 23 controlled by magnet 4. Energization of magnet 24 will permit cam 2| to rotate with the listing shaft I9, and follower arm 25 will cause oscillation of rocker shaft 26 to which are secured arms 21 link-connected to the reciprocating crosshead 28 so that for each revolution of cam 2I, crosshead 28 will be moved upwardly and then down again to its initial position. Slidingly mounted in the crosshead are numeral type bars 2!! spring urged into movement with the crosshead as it rises. As type bar 29 moves upwardly, ratchet teeth 30 successively pass the nose of a stopping pawl 33 as the digit type elements 3| successively pass'the printing position opposite platen 32. Energization of printing control magnet 36 as the type bar moves upwardly, will draw call wire 35 toward the right to rock latch 34 out of engagement with stopping pawl 33 whereby the nose of the latter will engage one' of the teeth 30 and interrupt further upward movement of the type bar. The upward movement of the type bar is synchronized with the movement of an impulse emitting device, which will be referred to later herein, to cause the magnet 36 to be energized to interrupt the type bar with the type element 3| corresponding to the value of the digit set up in suitable means associated with the impulse emitting device. Before the crosshead 28 moves Energization of .magnet I8 will trip dog I6 into engagement with disk I4, 
downwardly, the usual printing hammers are tripped to take an impression from the selected type elements. 
 Cam 2I controls the movement of the crosshead 28 during the total taking operations. The provision of magnet 24 and associated cultching devices together with the controlling circuits, which will be described in connection with the circuit diagram, permit the use of cam 2| for such printing purposes. 
Accumulating mechanism The machine is provided with one or more accumulators for adding and subtracting the entered data values to secure the amount of positive or negative balances. In Fig.6 is shown a perspective view disclosing a representative order of an accumulator with its number entering controls. A drive shaft 69 is directly geared to pulley shaft 6 of Fig. 1 so that it is in operation as long as the driving motor of the machine functions, and the driving ratio is such that shaft 69 makes one revolution for each card feeding cycle of the machine. Shaft 69 has slidably mounted thereon, but keyed for rotation therewith, a clutch element II, one for each denominational order of the accumulator. The element II is provided with a groove into which fits the end of the short arm of a lever I3 which is pivoted as shown and provided with a block 15 normally abutting an armature latch IE of adding magnet TI. A leaf spring I8 bears against the extremityof the longer arm of lever 13 and moves the same in a counterclockwise direction upon release of block I by armature I5. This movement will bring clutching member II into engagement with cooperating teeth I9 integralwith a gear 80 loosely mounted on shaft 59. Gear 80, when thus coupled to shaft 65, will rotate a gear 82, which meshes therewith and will displace the accumulator index wheel 83. 
 The rearward extremity of lever 13 is adapted to be engaged by a finger 84 toward the end of the cycle for the purpose of disengaging clutch element 1| from teeth I9 and relatching block 15 on armature 16. 
 Briefly, summarizing the adding operation, the magnet 11 may be energized at various points in the cycle of the machine, depending upon the location of a perforation in a column of the record card C, Fig. 5, analyzed by the lower brushes LB. This energization may take place in response to a perforation in any of the index point positions from 9 to 1, inclusive. A perforation in the 9 index point position will trip the clutch element II nine steps before finger 84 is operated to de-clutch it; and a perforation in the 1 index point position will trip the clutch element II one step before itis de-clutched by the finger 84. Each step of clutching engagement corresponds to a tenth of a revolution of the accumulator index wheel 83 so that a "9 hole will move it nine-tenths of a revolution and a 1 hole will move it one-tenth of a revolution. The manner in which circuits through the lower brushes control the operation of magnet 11 will be set forth in connection with the explanation of the circuit diagram. 
Carry mechanism Each wheel 83 has associated therewith a carry cam 99, Fig. 7, which cooperates with a pawl I00 pivoted on a latch arm I02. When the wheel 83 passes through the zero position, a high tooth of the carry cam 99 will engage and rock down its pawl I00 which, through an extension thereon, presses down a latch I04 normally holding the arm I02 of the next higher order. When released, arm I02 is moved by spring I05 to operate pawl I00 and engage a tooth on cam 99 to turn the wheel one step. 
Subtracting mechanism In the operation of the subtracting accumulator, the entry of the nines complement of a number to be subtracted is effected by initially tripping all the adding magnets TI as though to add nines in each position and causing the perforation in the record card to de-clutch the adding mechanism in accordance with the location of the perforation. This will result in the addition of the nines complement of the number. The elusive one is added into the units order of the accumulator independently to thereby change the nines complement to a tens complement. For example, if an 8 is to be subtracted in a particular order, the related adding magnet 11 is tripped at the 9 position in the cycle of the machine and the index wheel will commence to rotate. At the next index point position, which is 8, the perforation will, through the mechanism to be presently described, cause de-clutching of the mechanism after the index wheel 83 has turned through, one step with the result that a ,l is added into the index wheel, representative of the nines complement of 8. The mechanism for effecting this de-clutching action will now be described. A shaft H6 is geared to the constantly rotating connections of the machine, the ratio being such that shaft I I6 makes two revolutions for one revolution of shaft 69. Secured to shaft H6 is a clutch element H1, and cooperating with the element is a clutching dog II8 pivoted at III! to a cam I20 freely mounted on shaft IIG. Also freely mounted on the shaft is a triple-armed member I2I, one of whose arms engages a pin I22 in the free end of dog II8 to hold the latter out of engagement with the driving element I I1. Each of the arms of member I2I is adapted to cooperate in turn, with a pawl I23, which is carried by clutch element I24 which is pivoted at I25. The pawl I23 is resiliently mounted on element I24 through a spring and pin connection. A magnet armature I21 having a pin I29 in a. laterally extending arm thereof, is adapted, upon energization of a subtracting magnet I30, to rock element I24 in a clockwise direction to release member I2I thereby permitting spring I3I to rock the member in a counterclockwise direction, and at the same time permit the engagement of dog I I8 with the driving element Ill. The cam. I20 will thus be driven in a counterclockwise direction until the next arm of member I2I is engaged by pawl I23, which then causes disengagement of the clutch and interruption of further movement of the cam. The cam I 20 is provided with three notches about its periphery, into which a roller I33 rises successively. 
 Upon the initial movement of cam I20, the higher, concentric portion of the cam will depress roller I33 and with it slider I34 upon which the roller is pivoted. Slider I34 has adjustably connected thereto another slider I35 which is vertically positionable with respect to the first slider by a pin and slot connection. The lower extremity of slider I35 is provided with a notch into which the horizontal arm of a bell crank I31 is fitted. The bell crank is pivoted at I30 and its depending arm lies adjacent to an edge of the clutch arm 13 so that the downward movement of slider I35 will cause the bell crank I31 to engage and move arm 13 in a de-clutching direction at a time determined by the time of energization of magnet I30 which is in turn controlled by a circuit extending through a lower brush to the perforation in the card. Thus the adding wheel is de-clutched from the drive connections after the complement value has been entered therein. 
Elusive one entry devices The mechanism by means of which the elusive one is entered into an accumulator is illustrated in Fig. '7. The units order of each subtracting accumulator has associated therewith a magnet I48 whose armature I49 is secured to the carry lever latch I04 of the units order so that energization of the magnet will trip the units pawl carrying arm I02, whereby, during the carrying portion of the machine cycle, the pawl I associated with the units order will advance the units Wheel one step. 
Balance read-out devices After various item amounts have been added and subtracted in the accumulator, it is desirable to bring into control between the accumulator and the printing devices some reading devices which make it possible to print a record of the posiitve or negative balance registered in the accumulator. These reading devices are in the form of electrical brush and commutator structures, one of which is shown associated with the accumulator order in Fig. 6. Each reading device is driven bya gear I09 meshing with accumulator gear 80. Since the ratio of gears I09 and 82 is 2:1, the former will turn through a half revolution for each revolution of the latter. 
 Each gear I09 carries two pairs of electrically connected brushes H0 and III insulated therefrom. For purposes of illustration these two brush sets are shown in Fig. 6 as fastened to one side of gear I00, but actually they appear as in U. S. Patent 2,007,375, where a detailed showing is presented. The secondary pair of mounted brushes III are set back 18 degrees or a twentieth of a revolution with respect to brushes H0. 
 The angular displacement of gear 80 and wheel B3 upon entry of a number, is accompanied by a corresponding angular displacement of gear I09 and brushes H0 and III. Thus if a 6 is entered into an order, the brushes H0 and III will be rotated six steps or six twentieths of a revolution in a counterclockwise direction as viewed in Fig. 6. 
 Cooperating with brushes I I0 is a commutator device comprising contact segments H2 and a common arcuate conductor II3 between which brushes IIO form an electrical connection There are ten segments II2 numbered, 0, 1, 2, 3 9" and one of the brushes IIO will contact with the segment II2 represented the setting of the accumulator wheel while the other brush contacts with conductor II3. Thus in Fig. 6, brushes IIO are positioned in accordance with the positioning of the accumulator Wheel at zero, 
 The brushes III cooperate in a similar way with the segments H2 and form electrical connection between the segments and another common conductor II4. It will be noted in iFg. 6 that this connection is made only between segments 0-8 and conductor II4. A special segment H is provided with which one of the brushes III contacts When the other brush contacts the special 9 segment I I511. The reason for this arranement will be made apparent hereinafter in the description of the circuit diagram. It was stated hereinbefore that brushes III are angularly displaced one step behind brushes III so that with brushes IIO set at 0 as in Fig. 6, brushes III will take a position bridging 9" segment H511 and the special segment H5. The usual connecting bars or strips are provided to connect electrically all th like numbered segments H2 and HM together (see wiring diagram). The highest order position of the device is provided with a single segment H51) in the 9 position which is connected by brushes III in this order to a common conductor II4b whose configuration is the same as that of conductors II4. 
Accumulator resetting mechanism tor, may be selectively coupled to the resetting M At the exshaft I53 in the well known manner. tremity of shaft I53 is a gear I54 which is adapt ed to be driven by an intermittent gear I55 which is secured to shaft I56. Also fixed to shaft I56 is an arm I5'I which carries a spring-pressed clutch dog I58 normally held in the position shown in Fig. 2 by a latching arm I59 supported. 
by armature shaft I60 of magnet armature I6I. Energization of magnet I62 will release dog I63 for engagement with a clutch driving element I63. Element I63 is integral with a gear I64 which meshes with a gear I65 secured upon constantly running shaft I9. With this arrangement, drive element I63 is in constant rotation andwhenever it is desired to efiect resetting of the accumulator, magnet I62 is energized to establish a connection between the element I63- and the resetting shaft I53. Resetting is usually an accompaniment of total taking and, by 
virtue of the intermittent gear connection, occurs during the latter part of the total taking cycle. With the present arrangement, total taking is brought about simply by energizing the y magnet 24, Fig. .3, to cause operation of the printing devices, and by energizing the reset clutch magnet I62 so that resetting may follow the printing of the totals from the accumulators. 
Ledger sheet record sheets of this type and analyzing means therefor are shown and described in United States Patent No. 2,254,931. A layer of paper I60 suitable for receiving printed impressions is provided to cover the magnetizable material, and is bonded by suitable adhesive material I69a to the said In addition to the normall ines of paper base. 
printed or posted data. indicated by the reference character I10, a plurality of magnetized areas or index points are recorded thereon. For example, the magnetic code mark I1I, positioned in the left margin of the sheet and formed on the last printed line of data, is the ledger positioning or line finding code mark, and the differentially positioned magnetized index points I12 are the magnetic code marks representing the new balance which is printed in the last line on the sheet. These magnetic code marks constitute a sensible effaceable record of the balance. The code arrangement of the magnetized index points is precisely the same as the arrangement of the perforations on the record cards C in Fig. 5. It should be mentioned that provision is made whereby the new balance index points I12 are always recorded or formed in the same predetermined area on the ledger sheet, which area is indicated by the reference character AS. 
 The ledger sheet is also provided with a magnetized entry control index point indicated by the reference character I12a, which is recorded thereon whenever the recorded balance is a negative one. This index point is effective to control certain circuits to be described later for controlling the type of entry operations in the balance accumulator. The said index point is always formed in the same column and in an index point position which is one and a half index points from the 9 index point position, the purpose of which will be understood as the description progresses. 
 It should be mentioned at this time that the length of the ledger sheet is assumed to be such that when its leading edge is positioned up to, but not under, the recording magnets I19 (Fig. 3), the first line space for receiving the printed data is presented to the printing line position or station. The purpose of this arrangement will be understood as the description progresses. 
Ledger sheet jeed'ing mechanism The main purpose of the ledger sheet feeding mechanism shown in Figs. 8 and 9 is to feed continuously the ledger sheet I66 past the balance code reading magnets I15, the line finding code reading magnet I18, the obliterating magnet I11, and then to the correct printing or posting position, where the sheet i halted momentarily. If the ledger sheet already contains, for example, three lines of printed data, when it is reinserted, it is to be fed to the fourth line to receive the new balance. The magnetized mark I1I is effective to exercise control over the mechanism to be described so that the sheet is positioned to receive the printed data in the fourth line. Incidentally, before the printing of each new lin the last line finding mark is obliterated and a new mark is recorded on the new printed line during printing operations. The line finding mark is recorded by the recording magnet I18 which is energized momentarily during the printing operations. After the balance printing operation, the ledger sheet is then fed past the balance recording magnets I19 so that the index points I12 can be recorded magnetically in the predetermined area AS on the ledger sheet to represent the new balance posted in the last line thereon. 
 The ledger sheet is inserted between suitable guides I80, with the surface of the sheet receiving the printed data facing the operator, and with the lower section of the sheet containing the said predetermined area AS inserted first so that the bottom edge of the sheet strikes the stop member I8I. The said stop member is rotatably mounted on shaft I82 upon which feed rollers I83 are fixed. (Also see Figs. 3 and 4.) An extension finger I84 of the stop member having a shoulder portion I84a is arranged to engage a locking slot I85 (see also Fig. 4a) formed in the bar I88 under the influence of toggle spring I81 Which is attached to the said extension finger and bar. The shoulder portion I84a cooperates with the slot I85, whenever the extension finger I84 is urged in a direction to the left, as viewed in Fig. 4, by means of the said toggle spring I81. The shaft I82 is rotatably supported by arms I88 (only one of which is shown) which are fastened to shaft I89. Also secured to shaft I89 is the armature I90 of the magnet I9I, so that upon energization of the latter, the said armature is attracted thereto causing shaft I89 to be partially rotated in a clockwise direction, thereby positioning the arms I88 and feed rollers I83 to the right, permitting the latter to engage the inserted ledger sheet and cooperate with the feed rollers I92. Positioning of the said arms to the right as viewed in Fig. 8 causes the extension finger I84 to be withdrawn from the locking slot so that the shoulder I 84a clears the slot I85, thereby permitting the stop member I8I to be rotated about the shaft I82 by the ledger sheet as it is fed through the guide members. The magnet I9I, as will be explained later, remains energized until after the trailing edge of the ledger sheet has passed the stop member IBI, permitting the latter to be returned by the spring I81 to the position shown in Fig. 3. Thereafter, when the magnet I9I is deenergized, stop member I8I is shifted to the left by shaft I82 and locked by the ledge above the slot I85 of bar I86. Feed rollers I92 and platen 32 are driven by shaft I93 through the suitable gearing connections indicated by the reference character I94. At one end of the shaft I93 a bevel gear I95 is affixed thereto, which gear engages bevel gear I90, the latter being secured to gear I91. Also fastened to shaft I93 is the bevel gear I98 which meshes with the bevel gear I99 fixed to shaft 200, the latter being arranged to drive the feed rollers 20I through the gearing connections 202. 
 Magnets 203 and 204 are the main control elements for effecting selective rotation of the said shafts I 93 and 200, and thereby in turn controlling the feeding and positioning of the ledger sheet. 
 An operating lever 205 is rigidly secured to the armature 20B, associated with magnet 203, and rotatably mounted on stud 201, so that, upon energization of the said magnet, the lever 205 is rotated in a clockwise direction to engage one of the slidably arranged pins 208 of the pin drum 208 and displace the engaged pin so that its free end extends beyond the periphery of the said drum. The said drum is provided with twelve positionable pins 208, one being shown in its displaced position, while the remaining ones are shown in the normal retracted positions. Each displaced pin remains in its extended position until restored to the normal position by an arm 2I0 which is secured to armature 2 of magnet 204, and arranged to engage any displaced pins, upon energization of the said magnet to rotate its armature and the said arm when any one pin is positioned opposite arm 2I0. 
Upon rotation of the pin drum 209, the dis- '2Ii is engaged with the fixed ratchet tooth member 220 which 'is' secured to the machine frame, 
thereby holding the clutch member 2I5 in a lockedposition. Gear 2I0' meshes with 'an idler gear 22I which in turn meshes with gear 222,'the 
latter'being' secured to the'pin drum 209. Also meshing with'ge'ar 222 is an idler gear 223 which engages the'gear I91. It isseen now that the traced gearing connections remain locked as long i as a displaced pin 200 causes the clutch member 2I5' to remain in a locked position, due to the engagement of the clutch elements 2I6 and 220. 
Now,"assume that the ledger sheet is inserted as'described hereinabove, and that the magnet I9 I is energized and maintained in this condition so that the stop member IOI is released and feed rollers I83 engage the ledger sheet, and that magnet 204 is energized to rotate partially the armature 2I I and arm 2I0 to restore the displacedpin 208 to its normal retracted position, thereby releasing the -lever 2 I 3. Upon release of the said lever, the clutch member 2 I 5 is forced to the right as "viewed in Fig. 9- by means of the compressed spring 224, so that the clutch elements 2" and 2I9 are engaged causing gear 2I0 to be'rotated by shaft I9, and in turn causing the described gearing and pin drum to be rotated. Due to the described operation, theledger sheet is now fed so that the balance code marks I12 pass by the reading magnets 'I15 and; are sensed or read thereby for control purposes to be described'later. 
Now, as the feeding of the ledger sheet continues, I 
the line finding mark IN is sensed by the magnet I16 to control the positioning of the ledger sheet, and then followed by an obliterating operation, 
whereby the sensed balance code marks and line finding mark are obliterated by the action of magnet I11. The said manget I16 is positioned so that the line finding m'ark'is sensed eight printing line spaces ahead of the printing position. The sensing of" the mark I1I by the magnet I16 causes the magnet 203 to be energized, and in turn causes one of the pins 200 to be displaced by means of the partially rotated armature 206 and lever 205. The said pin 200 when displaced as described is seven spaces or steps distant from the camming surface 2 I 2 ofthe clutch operating lever The ratios of the various gears of the train rotated by gear 2IB and shaft I9 are such that the pin drum 209 is rotated so that one of the pins 208 will pass the operating lever 205 while the ledger sheet is fed one line space. Thus, it is understood that the last printed line position on the sheet is sensed eight line spaces ahead of the printing position, and the ledger sheet is fed seven line space positions before the actuating gearing is locked, due to the engagement of said displaced pin with the camming surface on lever 2I3, and the shifting of the clutch member'2l 5, so that elements 2I0 and 220 remain engaged to maintain the gearing locked until magnet 204 is energized again. In this manner, the ledger sheet is halted at the'printing position, and the sheet is positioned so that the line space below the previously printed line is located at the printing position. It should also be mentioned that the clutch teeth on elements 2 I6, 2 I1 and 2I9 are arranged so as to operate in a timed relationship with'the movement of the ledger sheet, that is, one tooth,'for example of the driving element 2I9 will pass a fixed position or traverse a fixed distance for each line space movement of the ledger sheet, and furthermore, the arrangement is such that the ledger sheet is fed at a rate so that one line space is fedfor each point of the machine cyc1e As the leading edge of the ledger sheet. approaches the printing position it actuates the pivoted control lever 225 (which is similar tothe usual card lever) causing the associated contacts 226 to be closed, which condition is maintained as long as the ledger sheetis fed past this point. The control exercisedby these contacts will be described later in connection with the description of the'circuit diagram. 
 After the new balance has been derived, a printed" record thereof is made on the ledger sheet, also at this time, the recording magnet I10 is energized to record a magnetized mark on the printed line in the left-hand margin of the sheet After the said printwhen viewed as in Fig. 11. ing and line finding mark recording operations are completed, the magnet 204 is energized at the proper time, causing the displaced pin 200 to be restored to its normal position as described hereinabove, thereby permitting ledger sheet feeding operations to'be resumed. As the leading edge of the ledger sheet travels towards the code recording magnets I19, the pivoted control lever 221 is engaged to'cause contacts 228 to be closed for control purposes to be described later. It is to be noted that the free end of lever 221 is arranged when rotated partially by the ledger sheet, to engage only momentarily the extension 229 of contacts 229, so that the contacts .are closed momentarily and then permitted to reopen. The said lever and contacts are positioned so that closure will be effected when the leading edge of the ledger sheet is seven line spaces distant from the code recording magnets I19. It will be seen'that closure of these contacts causes the magnet 203 to be energized, and thus cause the feeding of the ledger sheet to be interrupted after the additional movement of seven line spaces. The leading edge of the ledger sheet is now adjacent to the'code mark recording position, and properly positioned with respect thereto so that upon a subsequent ledger sheet feeding operation, the predetermined area of the sheet indicated by the reference character AS is moved past the recordingmagnets I19 in proper timed relationship with the operation of the balance read-out mechanism. 
 With this provision of halting momentarily the ledger sheet before the code marking operations are initiated so that the leading edge of the sheet is always brought to rest at the same reference position, it will be evident that recording of the code marks will always occur in the said predetermined area irrespective of the location of the line of the new printedbalance. 
 After the ledger sheet is properly positioned with respect to the recording magnets I19, the magnet 204 is energized again, at the proper time, to permit the ledger sheet to be fed past the said recording magnets, whereupon the recording magnets are energized in accordance with the new derived balance to record the new balance data on the sheet by magnetizing discrete areas of the sheet at different index point positions. The ledger sheet is now fed continuously past the said recording magnets and when the trailing edge thereof passes the lever 221, the latter resumes the normal position indicated in Fig. 8. Due to the partial counterclockwise rotation of lever 221 the associated contacts 228 again are closed momentarily to effect energization of magnet 203, and thereby cause the ledger sheet feeding mechanism to be declutched and locked, as described hereinabove, when seven line spaces have been traversed by the sheet after the said energization of magnet 203. The ledger sheet is now positioned so that it can be ejected manually, or ejected by the second set of feed rollers 20I during the next cycle of operation of the time, the said stop member is partially rotated in acounterclockwise direction and restored to the normal position, shown in Fig. 8, by means of the spring I81. Now, upon deenergization of magnet I8I, the associated armature I99 and arm I88 are rotated in a counterclockwise direction, thereby urging or sliding the extension finger I84 into the locking slot I85 formed in bar I86. As mentioned before, by rigidly fixing the stop member I8I in this manner a definite positioning device is provided for the operator whereby the ledger sheet initially is always inserted the same distance in the guides I88. 
 It should be mentioned that contacts 238 are provided, and are suitably disposed with respect to the lever 2I3 so that they are closed when the said lever is positioned by a displaced pin 288 as shown in Fig. 9, and opened when the lever is not engaged by any one of the pins 288. 
 Additional mechanism is provided to insure positive positioning of the ledger sheet with respect to the several reference points referred to, whenever the ledger sheet is halted at these points. Referring to Figs. 8, 9, 10 and 10a, this mechanism is shown to comprise a camming member 23I which is reciprocated by means of a crank pin 232 formed on shaft 233. A driving gear 234 is secured to shaft 233, and said gear is driven by gears 235, 236, and 231, the latter gear being secured to clutch element 2|! which in turn is secured to shaft I9. The ratio of the gearing is such that the camming member 23I is reciprocated by the crank pin 232 once for each index point of the machine cycle. The gear 2I8 is provided with a plurality of equally spaced studs or pins 238, which under certain conditions are acted upon by the said reciprocated camming member. The arrangement of the described elements is such that, at the times the gear 2I8 is continuously rotated, the camming surface 23Ia is not effective to engage any of the pins 238; however, whenever the lever 2H is positioned by one of the displaced pins 288 so that the clutch elements 2I1 and 2I9 are disengaged, and in the event the driven gear 2!!! is not positioned properly to its home position, by virtue of the engaged clutch elements 220 and 224, the camming surface 23Ia. of the reciprocated member 23I is now effective to engage one of the pins 238 to provide the additional rotation necessary to position the gear 2I8 to its proper home position, thus assuring at all times, that the ledger sheet is properly positioned at the various reference points. 
Ledger sheet reading and recording devices Referring to Figs. 3, 8, and 9, a plurality of reading magnets I15 are shown to be situated between the feed rollers I92 and printing platen 32, and suitably disposed with respect to the ledger sheet guides I88 so that the pole pieces thereof are in close proximity to the ledger sheet inserted in the guides. A reading magnet is provided for each column of data to be sensed on the ledger sheet. This data is represented by the columns of discretely magnetized index points indicated by the reference character I12 in Fig. 11. 
 The principle of reading magnetized recordings is well known, therefore the brief description is deemed suflicient. Upon feeding the columns of discrete magnetized index points I12, past the reading magnets, the remanent magnetic fields thereof are efi'ective to induce controlling potentials in the coils of the related magnets I15. The said magnets are connected to the usual well known type of electronic amplifiers indicated generally by the reference character I15w (Fig. 14b) which amplifiers are arranged normally to be non-conductive so that the associated relays 588 remain deenergized, but are rendered conductive at such times when the induced potentials of magnets I15 are impressed thereupon, thereby causing the said associated relays 500 to be energized. 
 In this manner, when the differentially positioned magnetized index points are fed past the reading magnets I15, the index points induce controlling potentials in the associated magnets at differential times to cause the related relays 588 to be energized at such differential times. 
 One of the reading magnets I15 is positioned opposite the column of the ledger sheet wherein a data entry control index point I12a is formed whenever the balance recorded on the ledger sheet is a negative balance. As mentioned hereinbefore, the index point I12a is positioned one and a half index points below the 9 index point position. An entry control relay designated ECR is shown connected to the amplifier coupled with the last mentioned reading magnet, which relay is energized whenever the special entry control index point is sensed for data entry control purposes, which will be described in detail later, so that the sensed negative balance amount is entered subtractively in the balance accumulator. 
 A single reading magnet I16, similar to the reading magnets I15, is positioned below the set of reading magnets I15, so that the magnetized line finding mark or index point I1I, which is located in the left margin of the sheet as viewed in Fig. 11, can be sensed whenever moved past the said magnet I16. The usual amplifier I16a is shown connected to the reading magnet I18. which in turn is connected to the line finding control relay LFR, said amplifier being conditioned so that normally the relay LFR is deenergized when no index points are sensed, but arranged to be conductive, upon sensing the line finding marks, to energize, at such times, the said line finding control relay. 
 Due to the location of the mentioned reading magnets, the balance reading magnets I15 ar influenced first by the balance index points I12 to effect entry of the recorded balance into the balance accumulator; and thereafter the line finding index point I1! is sensed by the reading magnet I to effect automatic positioning of the ledger sheet so as to be in proper posting position. 
 An obliterating magnet I11 is provided and disposed between the line finding sensing station and the balance printing station, The obliterating magnet is arranged to be elongated so as to extend across all the columnar positions in which magnetized index points may appear on the ledger sheets. During the various machine operations to be set forth hereinbelow, the obliterating magnet is connected at all times to an alternating potential source l11a (Fig. 14c). The effect of this alternating potential, which is impressed continuously upon the obliterating magnet is known to create alternating magnetic fields, the influence of which, when the ledger sheet is moved therepast, is known to effect neutralization or obliteration of the magnetized index points recorded thereon. Therefore, it is seen that during the initial ledger sheet feeding operations, the magnetized index points, namely, the balance index points, the data entry control index point, the line finding control index point, 
are obliterated from the ledger sheet before posting operations are initiated. 
 At the posting or printing station, a recording magnet I18 is provided, which is suitably disposed to effect recording of a line finding index point in the marginal column reserved for this code designation. Upon momentary energization of the said recording magnet, by impressing a unidirectional impulse thereupon, a magnetic field is set up which is effective to magnetize the ledger sheet at an index point position opposite the pole piece of the said magnet, thereby causing a discrete magnetized index point to be formed on the sheet, which index point, upon reinsertion of the sheet in the machine, is effective to influence the line finding reading magnet I16 as just set forth. The position of this magnet at the printing station is such, that the magnetized index point, indicated by the reference character l1l in Fig. 11, is formed in the line space receiving the printed data during the printing operations, It will be described in detail how this magnet is energized during the printing operations to effect recording of the magnetized line finding designation at the time the new balance is recorded. 
 The balance recording magnets I19 are shown situated between the'feed rollers 2!. An individual recording magnet is provided for each column in which it is desired to effect recording of the magnetized index points to represent the new balance, which recording is under control of the accumulator and the associated balance readout mechanism. The controlling elements for rendering these recording magnets effective to form the discrete magnetized index points, in the manner just described, representing the new balance, and indicated on the ledger sheet by the reference character I12, will be described later. 
 Circuit controlling devices A plurality of timed circuit controlling devices are provided for exercising control over the various control circuits of the machine and comprise the emitter device 650 (Fig. 14b), circuit breaker contacts CBC (Fig. 14a), and the F, L, P and R cam contacts (Figs. I ia-14c). The timing of the operations of these devices in the machine cycle is shown in Fig. 13. The emitter device 650 is well known in this art and comprises a plurality of individual conducting segments 6500, which are engaged successively by one of the brushes 650a and connected to the common conducting strip or member 65017 by the other brush. The brushes are rotated by a shaft (not shown), which in turn is rotated by shaft l9 and suitable reduction gears so that the brushes are rotated at half the speed of shaft I9. This mechanism is shown in detail in Figs. 4 and 5 of Patent 2,126,- 621. This device controls the balance recording and total printing circuits in a manner to be fully explained hereinafter. 
 In Fig. l is shown a shaft 8| which is driven from the gears of the card feeding mechanism and rotates only when cards are advanced. Controlled by suitable cams on shaft 8| are contact devices, each of which is designated by the letter F indicating that they are associated with the feeding mechanism and operative only when the feeding mechanism functions. In Fig. 3 is shown a shaft 24| which is driven by gears 242 and 243, the latter being fixed to'fthe print cam 2|, and rotates only during the total print operations, that, is, at the times when magnet 24 is energized. Secured to the said shaft 24! are suitable cams for controlling the contact devices, each of which is indicated by the letter P, indicating that they are associated with the printing mechanism, and operative only when this mechanism functions. shaft I56 (Fig. 2) for controlling the contact devices, each of which is indicated by the letter R, indicating that they are associated with the resetting mechanism, and operative only when this mechanism functions. Similar cam controlled contact devices prefixed with the letter L are provided, the control cams for which are carried by or may be driven from the shaft l9, and these devices are in constant operation as long as the driving motor functions. The cams for operating the. circuit breaker contacts CBC are likewise secured to shaft l9. 
Operation of the machine Referring now to Figs. 14a, 14b, and 140, arranged in the order named, the operation of the machine will be described in connection with th circuit diagram. 
 Initial reset cycle.-To condition the machine for normal operation, it is first necessary to initiate a total and reset operation. This is accomplished by depressing the reset key to close the reset contacts R and complete a circuit through relays 40 and 4| as follows: from one side of the line 464, through relay coil 40, relay coil 4|, reset contacts R to line 465, thus energizing the two relays mentioned. Energization of relay 4| causes the relay contacts 4m to open and thus prevent a card feeding cycle during ensuing resetting operations and upon conditioning of the group control devices. The energization of relay 40 causes its associated contacts 40a to 40d to close. Closure of contacts 40a completes a circuit through the drive clutch magnet 31 as follows: from line 464, through the drive clutch magnet coils 31, the contacts 3111, relay coil 39, the now closed contacts 40a, the stop key contacts SPI to line 465. Energization of the drive clutch magnet 31 causes the coupling of the driving motor TM to the pulley shaft 6 mentioned hereinabove. Energization of relay 39 causes contacts 39a to close and complete a holding circuit for itself and the drive clutch magnet through the cam contacts Ll Th operation of the drive clutch magnet armature upon being attracted, 
Similarly, suitable cams are secured to the V causes the contacts 31a to open, thus opening the shunt circuit around the relay coil 38 and permitting said relay to operate and close its associated contacts 38a. The closure of contacts 38a completes a circuit through th main drive motor TM. 
 Closure of contacts 40b completes a circuit through the list clutch magnet 24 as follows: from line 464 through magnet coils 24, contacts 46b, contacts 61a, which are closed as long as the ledger feeding mechanism remains inoperative, due to closed contacts 236 which connect the relay coil 6| to the lines 464 and 465, and cam contacts L2 to line 465, energizing the said list magnet. At the same time a circuit through the reset magnet I62 is completed as follows: line 464 to reset magnet coils I62, contacts 4110, contacts Na and cam contacts L2 to line 465, energizing the said reset magnet. Thus, upon depressing the reset key, a total print and reset cycle is initiated. 
 Closure of contacts 40d completes a circuit through the relay coil 63 (Fig. 140) as follows: from line 464, through the relay coil 63, contacts 40d now closed, and cam contacts L3 to line 465. Energization of the relay 63 causes its associated contacts 63a and 63b to be closed. The closure of contacts 63a completes a holding circuit for the relay 63 back through the cam contacts P8 and R2 to line 465. 
 Closure of contacts 63b completes a circuit through relay coil 46 (Fig. 14a) as follows: from line 464, through the normally closed MCRc contacts, relay coil 48, the closed contacts 63b to line 465. Energization of the relay coil 48 closes its associated contacts 480: and 48b, and through contacts 48b and 63b establishes a holding circuit therefor. With the total control switch TCS set at its closed position, and upon closure of cam contacts RI and P2, a circuit is completed through a balance print control magnet 49 as follows: from line 464, through cam contacts RI or P2, contacts 48a now closed, switch TCS, through magnet coil 49 and lines 616 and 465. Energization of magnet 49 closes contacts 49a, and completes balance print control circuits from the accumulator readout units to the total print magnets 36 as described in greater detail hereinafter. 
 During the total print and reset cycle, the cam contacts P3 are closed. Closure of contacts P3 completes a circuit through the control relay coil MCR as follows: from line 464, through cam contacts P3, relay coil MCR and cam contacts F2 to lines 619 and 465. The energization of relay MCR causes its associated contacts MCRc to shift and establish a holding circuit for itself as fol lows: from line 464, through the new transferred contacts MCRc, relay MCR, the F2 cam contacts to lines 616 and 465. The energization of relay coil MCR also causes the associated contacts MCRa to open and contacts MCRb to close. It should be stated that the L cam contacts function whenever the drive motor is operating, the F cam contacts only function during card feeding operations, and the R and P cam contacts function only during reset and total printing operations, respectively. 
 Near the end of the first cycle, cam contacts LI open, thus breaking the holding circuit through the relay coil 39 and the drive clutch magnet 31. The machin is now conditioned ready to start feeding cards and controlling item entry in the normal manner. 
Starting circuits-Assuming that cards have been properly placed in the card feeding hopper, the operator now depresses the start key, thus closing the start key contacts STI and completes a circuit through relay coil 42 as follows: from line 464, through relay coil 42, the normally closed contacts 44a, normally closed contacts LCLb and start key contacts STI to line 465. Upon depression of the start key contacts ST2 (Fig. are also closed but are ineffective to complete a circuit owing to the fact that the lower card lever contacts are open at this time. Energization of relay coil 42 causes associated contacts 42a and 42b to close. Closure of contacts 42a completes a circuit through the drive clutch magnet as follows: from line 464, through the drive clutch magnet 31, the contacts 31a, relay coil 39, contacts 42a now closed, and through the stop key contacts SPI to line 465. As previously described, upon energization of the drive clutch magnet 31 the contacts 31a open, thus causing the relay 33 to operate and again start the drive motor TM, likewise, a holding circuit is established through contact points 39a as previously explained. 
 Closure of contacts 421) completes a circuit through the relay 43 as follows: from line 464, through relay coil 43, contacts 42b now closed, the stop key contacts SP2, contacts 4Ia, contacts MCRb now closed, to line 465. 
 Energization of relay 43 causes its associated contacts 43a and 43b to close. Closure of contacts 43a establishes a holding circuit for the relay 43 as follows: from line 464, through relay coil 43, contacts 43a now closed, to the stop key contacts SP2, contacts 4la, the shifted contacts MCRb, to line 465. Closure of contacts 43b completes a circuit through the card feed clutch magnet I8 as follows: from line 464 through the card feed clutch magnet [6, contacts 431; now closed, through cam contacts L2 to line 465. With the circuits conditioned as described, the card feeding operations can be started. 
 Card lever circwits.-As the first card is fed from the hopper through the card feeding mechanism, the upper card lever contacts UCLC are closed just before the leading edge of the card enters under the sensing brushes UB at the upper station. Upon closure of the upper card 1ever contacts UCLC, a circuit is completed through the upper card lever relay UCL and the relays 46 as follows: from line 464, through relay coil UCL, relay coil 46, and the closed contacts UCLC to line 465. The energization of relay 46 sets up a holding circuit for itself, and the rela UCL through the associated contacts 46a and cam contacts L5 to line 465. Thus, as long as cards are feeding through the feed unit, relay UCL and relay 46 will be maintained energized by the overlapping condition between cam contacts L5 and the UCLC contacts. The energization of the relay UCL causes its associated contacts to be operated for well known controlling purposes. As a card passes the upper brushes UB, information recorded therein is sensed by the upper brushes and certain functions are performed which will be described hereinafter. 
 Near the end of the second card feed cycle, the lower card lever contacts LCLC are closed and complete a circuit through the relay LCL and relay 4'! as follows: from line 464, through relay coil LCL, relay coil 41, through the now closed contacts LCLC to line 465. Energization of the relay 4'! completes a holding circuit for itself and the lower card lever relay through contacts 41a and cam contacts L6 to line 465. The 
lower card lever relay LCL and rela 41 will be maintained energized as long as cards are being fed, in a manner similar to that for the upper card lever relay. 
The energization of the upper card lever relay causes the closure of contacts UCLa which complete a holding circuit for the drive clutch magnet 31 as follows: from line 464, through the drive clutch magnet 31, the relay 38, the relay coil 39, contacts 39a, the contacts UCLa now closed and through the stop key contacts SPI to line 465. Thus, the drive clutch magnet 31 will be maintained energized as long as cards are in the card feeding mechanism. A parallel holding circuit is set up through contacts LCLa which are closed upon energization of the lower card lever relay LCL. This circuit maintains the drive clutch magnet energized until the last card has passed the lower sensing brush station. Just prior to the closure of the lower card lever contacts, cam contacts F2 open and rela MCR is deenergized. The deenergization of relay MCR allows the associated contacts to restore to normal. Thus, the contacts MCRb are opened and contacts MCRa are closed. Opening of contacts MCRb opens the circuit through the relay 43, thus causing the associated 43a points to restore to normal. The opening of contacts 43b opens the circuit through the card feed clutch magnet I6, thus causing the card feeding mechanism to stop at the completion of the second card feed cycle. The closing of contact MCRa completes a circuit through the relay coil 44 and the relay coil 45 as follows: from line 464, through relay coil 44, relay coil 45, cam contacts L8 now closed, 
contacts MCRa to line 465. Energization of the relay 44 causes contacts 44a. to open and thus prevent operation of relay 42 and the card feed unit by depression of the start key while a total and reset cycle is functioning. The energization of relay 45 causes closure of contacts 45a and completion of a circuit through the list clutch magnet 24 as follows: from line 464, through the magnet 24, contacts 45a, contacts 6Ia, and cam contacts L2 to line 465. Closure of contacts 451) completes a circuit through the relay 63 as follows: from line 464, through the relay coil 63, contacts 45b and cam contacts L3 to line 465. Energization of relay coil 63 sets up a holding circuit for itself back through contacts 63a, cam contacts P8 and R2 to line 465. The energization of relay 63 also closes contacts 63?) and sets up the circuit for total printing in the manner previously described. With the starting cycles completed and the cards in position, the machine is ready for ledger sheet feeding operations. 
 Initial ledger sheet feeding operations.-Assume that the ledger sheets are arranged in order or preselected to correspond to the order and arrangement of the grouped record cards, and that the card now presented to the lower brush station is the first card of the group corresponding to the ledger sheet to be inserted in the ledger feeding mechanism. It is also assumed for the present description that the inserted ledger sheets are provided with lines of printed balances. and that the last balance is recorded magnetically in section AS of the ledger sheet. The ledger sheet is inserted in the guides I86 until the leading edge engages the locked stop member I8I, thereby insuring that the sheet is properly prepositioned so that during the ensuing sheet feeding operations the sheet will be fed in proper timed relationship with the various control elements of the machine. The start key is then depressed to close the associated contacts STI and 5T2. Closure of the S'I'I contacts are not effective at this time to exercise any control over the machine, since contacts LCLb are open. Closure of contacts 6T2 completes a circuit from line 464 to relay coil 52, contacts LCLc, contacts 56b, contacts 6Ib, said start contacts ST2, cam contacts LIB, and normally closed contacts 59a to line 465, 
 energizing said relay. A holding circuit is established for this relay as follows: from line 464 to relay coil 52, contacts 52a, and contacts 660 to line 465. Due to closure of contacts 52b, a circuit is completed from line 464 and 465 to magnet coils I9I, energizing said magnet. Upon energization thereof the feed rollers I83 are rotated to grip the inserted ledger sheet, and the stop member I6I is released so that the sheet is now free to be fed through the machine. Closure 2 of contacts 520 permits a circuit to be completed membered that energization of this magnet causes the displaced pin 268 of the pin drum 269 to be restored to its normal retracted position, thereby permitting the lever 2I3 to be released to eifect engagement of clutch elements 2H and 2I6, thus causing the feeding mechanism for the ledger sheet to be operated. 
 It should be stated that the cam contacts LI I are arranged to be closed at a time in the machine cycle so that the ledger sheet will be fed past the reading magnets I 15 in synchronism with the operation of the control elements of the machine, that is, the 9 index point position indicated in section AS of the sheet, arranged to receive the balance code marks I12, will be fed past the reading magnets I15 at the "9 point in the machine cycle. 
 Closure of contacts 52d permits a circuit to be completed, when cam contacts LI2 are closed, 
5 from line 464 to relay coil 51, said contacts 52d, 
contacts 56d and 6Ic to the said cam contacts LIZ and line 465, energizing said relay to close the associated contacts 51a, 51b, and 510. C10- sure of contacts 51a establishes a holding cir- 5o cuit for said relay from line 464 to relay coil 51, said contacts 51a and cam contacts LI3 to line 465. The relay 56 is energized upon closure of contacts 51b and the cam contacts LI4 by the circuit from line 464 to relay coil 56, said 55 contacts 51b and LI4 to line 465, and consequently causing contacts 56a to close and contacts 56b58d to open. Closure of contacts 58a establishes a holding circuit for relay 58 through the closed contacts 52c. Opening of 60 contacts 581) prevents the closure of a circuit to relay 52 by depression of the start key; opening of contacts 580 prevents subsequent energization of magnet 264 upon closure of cam contacts LII; and opening of contacts 58d prevents a circuit from being established to relay 51 upon umns of the section AS representing the last balance, are effective to influence the related reading magnets at the differential times the index points are sensed, thereby causing the associated relays 566 to be energized and eifect 15 closure of the related contacts 566a. Closure of the said contacts 5000, complete circuits to the add magnets 11 to energize these magnets at difl'erential times in the machine cycle for effecting entries in the balance accumulator of the sensed data represented by the magnetized index points I12, precisely in the same manner as the sensed data on the record cards are entered therein under control of the lower sensing brushes LB. A typical circuit can be traced from line 465, through the circuit breaker contacts CBC, contacts 500a, plug wire to socket 663, contacts 64g, magnet 11 to line 464. 
 In the event the balance recorded magnetically on the ledger sheet is a negative one, the said sheet is provided with an entry control magnetized index point indicated by the reference character I12a, the purpose of which is similar to that of the well known X perforations in perforated record cards. The entry control index point i recorded at a position so that the said index point is sensed before the data recordings. The purpose of this arrangement is well understood, namely, so that the balance accumulator can be conditioned properly for the entry of the negative balance. For this reason the said index point is formed one and a half index points ahead of the 9 index point positions. 
 Now, as the ledger sheet is fed past the reading magnets I15, the magnet arranged to sense the entry control index point I120, is influenced thereby to cause the associated relay ECR to be energized. It is understood now, that this control relay is energized one and a half cycle points before the 9 point of the machine cycle. Energization of the said relay causes the associated contacts ECRa to close and complete a circuit to relay 64, which circuit shunts the contacts 62b, 43c and cam contacts LI1. A holding circuit is then established for this relay through contacts 64a and cam contacts LIB. Upon energization of relay 64 the associated contacts which are connected to the add and subtract control magnets of the accumulator are operated as follows: contacts 6471-6411 are closed to connect the add control ma nets 11 and the elusive one control magnet I48 to the 9 conducting segment of emitter device 650; the transfer of contacts 64b64g open the circuits from the plug sockets, one of which is designated 663, to the related add magnets 11, and connect the said sockets to the related subtract magnet I30. In this manner, the said add magnets are energized at the 9 point in the machine cycle as though to add nines in each order of the accumulator. A typical circuit can be traced from conductor 464 to the add magnet connected to contacts 64h, said contacts 64h, 9 conducting segment of emit er device 650, brushes 650a, common conducting member 65% to line 465. 
 Now, as the magnetized balance code index points I12 are sensed to influence the reading magnets I15 at the differential times the said index points move therepast, the subtract control magnet I30 are energized at the said differential times to cause the adding mechanism to be declutched, as described hereinbefore, thereby entering the nines complement of the sensed data. A typical circuit can be traced from line 465 to circuit breaker contacts CBC, contacts 500a, plug wire to socket 663, transferred contacts 64g, magnet I30 to line 464. The elusive one is added into the units order upon energization of magnet I48 to change the nines complement of the amount of a tens complement. 
 In this manner the last balance recording on the ledger sheet is sensed to eii'ect entry of the positive or negative amount in the balance accumulator. 
 Operation of the ledger sheet feeding mechanism is continued until the sheet is fed to p-I'E sent the next clear line space theron to the printing position, whereupon ledger sheet feeding operations are interrupted until the new accumulated balance is readout and printed on the ledger sheet. The detailed description of the automatic ledger sheet line finding operations and obliterating operations Will be given presently. 
 It should be stated at this time, that near the beginning of the balance sensing and entry cycle, cam contacts L4 are closed to complete a circuit from line 464 to magnet coil 42, closed contacts 44a and 510 to the said cam contacts L4 and line 465 energizing said magnet Upon energization of the said magnet, the magnet 43 and card feed clutch magnet I8 are energized, a described hereinabove, to cause the record cards to be fed through the machine. The clutch mechanism controlled by magnet I8 is of the type well known and constantly used in record controlled machines, and is not rendered operative until the D position at the end of the said balance entry cycle. 
 Automatic Zine finding operations-It has been stated before that the ledger sheets are provided with a magnetized line finding mark or index point I'll in one margin of the ledger sheet, 
and that this index point is recorded in the line space where the last balance amount is printed, to enable the control elements of the machine to determine the location of the last printed line on the ledger sheet. 
 Now, as the ledger sheet is advanced towards the printing station, as described hereinabove, and after the balance code marks are sensed by the reading magnets I15, the line finding index point I 1| is moved past the reading magnet I16 to influence this magnet and cause the relay LFR to be energized, thereby effecting closure of the associated contacts LFRa. It might be well to repeat at this time, that the said reading magnet I15 is positioned a distance equivalent to eight ledger sheet line spaces from the printing station. 
 Closure of contacts LFRa completes a circuit to the magnet 203 to effect energization of this magnet, thereby causing one of the pins 208 of the pin drum 209 to be displaced. It is understood from the description given hereinabove, that upon displacement of one of the said pins 208, the ledger sheet feeding mechanism is rendered inoperative upon the feeding of the sheet an addi-- tional distance equivalent to seven line spaces. Thus, the last printed line on the ledger sheet will be positioned one line space above the printing station, upon interruption of the ledger heet movement. It is seen that in this manner the ledger sheet is positioned to receive the imprint of the new balance amount in the first clear line space on the sheet. 
 Up to this point, the old balance represented by the index points I12, and the line finding index point I1I have been sensed by the respective reading magnets I15 and I16. It should be mentioned now that a the said magnetized index points I12 and Ill are moved past the obliterating magnet I11, which is disposed between the reading magnet I16 and the printing station, the