Calculating machine and remote 
US-2497784-A
nan
1950-02-14
https://patents.google.com/patent/US2497784A/en
Feb. 14, 1950 "r. o. MEHAN ET AL 2,497,784 
CALCULATING MACHINE AND REMOTE CONTROL MECHANISM THEREFOR Filed May 15, 1944 .12 Sheets-Sheet l COMPLETE CYCLE E OVERTRAVEL OPERATES l EEgJR E POSSIBLE MOTOR -B U H CARS} +5w- SWITCH 43 swncu 43 OPENS CLOSES GLU I' I'I MOTOR MOTOR MOTOR T R I sums OFF I RESTARTS 085%} INVENTORS W Yfiornas QMe/ioma BY HuniferE.H0c%6 L 6M7VM 191' OWEYS. 
 T. o. MEHAN ET AL 2,497,784 CALCULATING MACHINE AND REMOTE CONTRQL MECHANISM THEREFOR Filed May 15, 1944 12 Sheets-Sheet 3 INVENTORS Tfib'nzozs O. fife/Lean BY Hunfier E. H cuxe 7%24' zg/hxj/auz x Ma I ATTORNEYS. 
Feb. 14, 1950 Feb. 14, 1950 T. o. MEHAN ET AL CALCULATING MACHINE AND REMOTE CONTROL MECHANISM THEREFOR l2 Sheets-Sheet 4 Filed May 15, 1944 INVENTORS O. fie/win BY Huniuzr E. H902 ATTORNEYS. 
 n w 4 s m 0 5 w t 0 H N ma m 9 m 6E H H m r A 2 a @w Z R m T. O. MEHAN ET AL CALCULATING MACHINE AND REMOTE CONTROL MECHANISM THEREFOR Feb. 14, 1950 Filed May 15, 1944 Feb. 14, 1950 T. o. MEHAN ET AL 2,497,784 
CALCULATING MACHINE AND REMOTE CONTROL MECHANISM THEREFOR 12 Sheets-Sheet 6 Filed May 15, 1944 11 p Fens 195@ T. 0. MEHAN ETAL 9 CALCULATING MACHINE AND REMOTE CONTROL MECHANISM THEREFOR Filed May 15, 1944 12 Sheets-Sheet 7 a Q Wdnh. 4 1.1 |v \7 5 b 1/ V. u w of Wm WM WM W O. MEHAN CALCULATING MACHINE AND REMOTE CONTROL MECHANISM THEREFOR Feb. 14, 1950 T. o. MEHAN ET AL 2,497,?84 
CALCULATING MACHINE AND REMOTE CONTROL MECHANISM THEREFOR Filed May 15, 1944 12 Sheets-Sheet l0 t INVENTORS Q Tfiomczs O. Mefzcan Hunt/er E. H003 ATTORNEYS Feb. 14, 1950 T. o. MEHAN ET AL CALCULATING MACHINE AND REMOTE CONTROL MECHANISM THEREFOR l2 Sheets-Sheet 11 Filed May 15, l944 I IN VEN TORS Thomas aMefzan Hunigr E. Hove BY M 29 M HYTORIVEYG. 
 1950 T. o. MEHAN ET AL 2,4979784 CALCULATING MACHINE AND REMOTE CONTROL MECHANISM THEREFOR Filed May 15, 1944 12 Sheets-Sheet 12 v f C 2- 1 Lime 25 IN VENTORS 0. Meiiaan BY Hu72i'27rE..H00e 
ATTORNEYS, 
Patented Feb. 14, 1950 CALCULATING MACHINE AND REMOTE CONTROL MECHANISM THEREFOR Thomas 0. Mehan, Park Ridge, and Hunter E. Hooe, Chicago, Ill., assignors to Victor Adding Machine 00., a corporation of Illinois Application May 15, 1944, Serial No. 535,574 
 Our invention relates generally to accounting machines and apparatus, and more particularly to improved systems and apparatus for performing accounting operations through the use of remote control mechanisms. 
 In various businesses, such as in a department store, it is desirable that the accountant or comptroller be able rapidly to determine the amounts of sales of different categories or of different departments and to obtain printed records of the totals of such sales. At present it is the common practice to utilize individual cash registers in the various departments and at the end of the day to collect the record tapes from such cash registers and from these tapes, by suitable classification and segregation, to obtain the total sales in various significant categories. This involves a considerable amount of clerical work so that the Comptroller or manager cannot have immediately available the sales figures on which to base his decisions as to purchases, etc. 
 It is therefore an object of our invention to provide an improved accounting system and apparatus whereby totals of sales of various categories or departments may be obtained substantially instantaneously at any time. 
 A further object is to provide an improved apparatus for performing operations similar to ledger posting to obtain cumulative net totals of items of different categories or classifications. 
 A further object is to provide an improved adding and listing machine capable of remote control, the accumulations of which may be remotely registered and recorded. 
 A further object is to provide an improved accounting system and apparatus utilizing individual adding machines of basically standard construction and providing electrical control circuits 1 and mechanisms whereby such machines may be -;utilized as transmitters or receivers in mechanical accounting systems. 
 A further object is to provide an improved electrical means for sensing the amount accumulated in an adding and listing machine. 
A further object is to provide an improved con-; 
trol circuit whereby the amounts accumulated in an adding and listing machine may be transferred to another adding and listing machine. 
 A further object is to provide an improved electrical means for operating an adding and listing machine from a remote control station and, at said remote control station, making a record of the total of items accumulated in such adding machine, through the operation trical sensing means. 
of elec- 9 Claims. (01. 235 -6031) Other objects will appear from the following description, reference being had to the accompanying drawings, in which: 
Fig. l is a diagrammatic view illustrating a master machine and a plurality of secondary machines embodying our improved remote control mechanisms, such machines being arranged to illustrate a typical department store installation; 
 Fig. 2 is a similar diagrammatic view showing the machines embodying our invention arranged to illustrate an installation especially adapted for sales analysis; 
 Fig. 3 is a right side elevational view of the front portion of a master machine with the case and base appearing in vertical section, and showing particularly a transmitter unit and receiver unit incorporated therein; 
 Fig. 4 is a left side elevational view of the front portion of the master machine; 
 Fig. 5 is a plan view of a receiver unit mounted upon the keyboard cover plate of a master machine and showing particularly the solenoids for actuating the subtract key, total key, and motor bar key of such machine; 
 Fig. 6 is a fragmentary plan view of the front part of a departmental or master machine with parts broken away to show the transmitter unit assembly; 
chine shown in section taken on broken line I0-I0 of Fig. 6; 
Fig. 11 is an enlarged vertical section through the transmitter unit taken on the line ll-H of Fi 6; 
 Fig. 12 is an enlarged horizontal section through the transmitter unit taken on the line l2-I2 of Fig. .7, and showing particularly the transmitter brushes; 
 Fig. 13 is a schematic wiring diagram of the electrical control circuits for a master machine and two secondary machines; 
 Fig. 14 is a right side elevational view of the secondary adding and listing machine, with some parts appearing in vertical section and still other parts omitted for the sake of clearness; 
quence of operation of various parts of the apparatus. 
General description It is believed that the detailed description of more readily understood if it-is read with a general knowledge of the functions to be performed and the general manner in which the objects of the invention are attained. 
 There are disclosed herein two forms of the invention. In the first form there is provided a plurality of departmental adding and listing machines which may be distributed among the various departments of a business and which are provided with the usual amount keyboard and operating motor control key, but which are not provided with the usual total and subtotal taking keys. These departmental machines are electrically connected to a master machine which may be located in the comptrollers ofiice. The electrical intercontrols between the master machine and the departmental machines are such that the departmental machines may be individually selected to cause them to execute total or subtotal taking operations while simultaneously transferring such subtotals or totals to the master machine. The individual departmental machines in which such subtotal and total operations are to be performed are selected by suitable key controlled mechanisms forming part of, or associated with, the master machine. The recording or printing apparatus of each departmental machine makes a complete record of all of the operations performed by such machine whether as a result of the direct manual operation of the machine or .by remote control from the master machine, and similarly, a record is made by the master machine of all subtotal and total taking operations effected in the various departmental machines. A grand total may then be secured by a total taking operation of the master machine. 
 'In the other embodiment of the invention, used for sales analysis and similar accounting problems, a plurality of conventional secondary add- 'ing and listing machines are selectively controlled from a single master adding and listing machine so that amounts entered in the latter may be selectively entered in one or more of the sec-' ondary machines and thus permit performance of operations similar to ledger posting, the system providing for taking totals or subtotals in the secondary adding and listing machines and transferring such totals or subtotals to the master machine. This latter system-provides a simple, effective means for classifying and obtaining totals of items of different classes or categories. 
 The individual machines used in these two embodiments of the invention are in many respects similar. The master machines may be substantially identical. The departmental or secondary machines of the two systems might be of identical construction, but because of their difierent functions some are preferably provided with transour improved remote control mechanism will be" Serial 566,980 filed December mitter units only, while others are provided with both receiver and transmitter mechanisms. 
 One of the distinctive features of both systems is that the simple mechanisms of a ten-key type adding machine are employed in both the master machines and the departmental or secondary machines. Because of the use of machines of the ten-key type the number of electrical connections required for transmitting key operations and totals from one machine to another or others is greatly simplified. 
 The ten-key adding and listing machine mechanism preferably used as parts of both the master, departmental, and secondary machines is that disclosed in the copending application of Thomas 1944, which has matured into Patent No. 2,486,959. Said application Serial No. 566,980 is a division of abandoned application Serial No. 313,896, filed January 15, 1940. Most of the essential parts of such ten-key adding machine are shown herein, particularly in Fig. 14, but are not described in detail because the machine is of the well known Victor type. 
 In Fig. 1, there is shown diagrammatically a system employing a master adding and listing machine and four departmental machines representative of any desired number which may be employed. In this figure A designates a master machine, i. e., a machine which is arranged electrically to collect, and accumulate totals and subtotals derived fromthe departmental machines designated B, C, D, E. The master machine may be located in an executives ofiice, such as that of the comptroller of the department store, while machines B, C, D and E are assumed to be located in various departments, as the notions, dress goods, mens furnishings, and china departments, respectively. A multi-conductor cable F connects the master machine with the departmental machines. The control circuits provided in part by the conductors of this cable will be more fully explained in connection with the wiring diagram of Fig. 13. G represents a selection key control box, which is associated with the master machine A and serves as the means for selecting which of the machines B, C, D, or E is to be controlled. 
 As diagrammatically illustrated in Fig. 1, each of the departmental machines may be mounted upon a cash drawer base H. In operation, the clerk or clerks, of the china department, for example, list and accumulate each sale made by setting up the amount of such sale in the keyboard El and printing it upon the tape E2. This same procedure is followed in each of the other "departments, thus listing the individual sales upon the tapes B2, C2, and D2, tive departments. 
 Let usassume that the executive in charge of the master machine A desires to learn the amount of the sales made in the china department, to ascertain the response to-an advertisement, or to determine what stock he should order, or for any other purpose for which this information may be needed. If he does not wish to clear machine E, he may take a subtotal and transfer this to the master machine A by manipulation of the proper selector keys J, or he may clear machine E by transferring its total to the master machine A. Similarly, the comptroller or operator 'of the master machine may transfer to themaster machine the totals or subtotals from any or all of the other departmental machines by actuation of the proper selection keys J. It will be noted that departmental machines B, C, 
for their respec- D, and E are each provided with a motor bar S to initiate an operating cycle, but that these machines do not have exposed control keys for total or subtotal taking operations. While only four departmental machines are illustrated, it will be understood that any reasonable number may be coupled in a single system. 
 In Fig. 2 the machines are arranged in a system for sales analysis. The machine designated K is the master machine and controls secondary machines L, M, N, O, and P. The master machine K has a selection key control box Q, with control keys R, associated therewith. 
 As a hypothetical case, let it be supposed that Mr. Doe and Mr. Roe are automobile salesmen and that machine L is to be used to enter all sales made by Doe, machine M for all sales made by Roe, and that machines N, O, and P are used to enter sales of three different car models or price ranges. 
 With the apparatus of Fig. 2, an operator can set up the amount of a sale made by Doe in the master machine keyboard K, and, by depressing the correct selection keys R in control box Q, such amount can be electrically entered into machine L Which accummulates Does sales, and in the proper machine N, O, or P, depending upon the model or the price range of the car sold. When all sales have been entered in the master machine K and also recorded in the proper ma-, chines L to P, respectively, the totals from machines L to P can be electrically transferred to the master machine andprinted on the master tape K2. Thus, the individual totals or subtotals of sales made by Doe and Roe, as well as the totals of each model sold, may be printed on their respective tapes L2 to P2, and at the same time transferred from machines L to P to the master machine K. These totals or subtotals may be printed on the tape K2 and entered in the accumulator of master machine K for subsequently taking a grand total. 
 From the foregoing it will appear that the master, departmental, and secondary machines may be of generally similar construction, but due to their different functions may differ in the following respects. The master machine A includes, in addition to conventional adding and listing mechanisms, the following: (1) a control box G with its keys J for selecting the departmental machine from which the total or subtotal is to be taken; (2) electromagnetic means for operating the amount keys under the control of the selected departmental machine during total and subtotal taking operations; (3) electromagnetic means controlled by the selected departmental machine, for initiating an adding operation in the master machine. 
 Each of the departmental machines B, C, D, and E, comprises conventional adding and listing machine mechanisms with the following differences: (1) these departmental machines have no exposed total, subtotal, or subtract control keys; (2) they are provided with sensing means capable of determining the totals accumulated in their accumulators; (3) they are provided with electromagnetic means for selectively initiating subtotal and total taking operations. 
 In the embodiment of Fig. 2, the master machine K comprises the conventional mechanisms of a ten-key adding and listing machine and the following: (1) a control box Q with control keys R. for selecting which of the secondary machines L to P are to be operated, and determining whether such operations shall be adding, subtracting, subtotaling, or total taking operations; (2) a sensing mechanism for determining the amount being added in the accumulator of the machine K; (3) electromagnetic means for interrupting the operating cycle of the machine K to allow time for the performance of the sensing operation; (4) electromagnetic means for setting up amounts on the keyboard of the machine K in the operation of electrically transferring totals or subtotals from the secondary machines L to P to the machine K. 
 Each of the secondary adding and listing machines L to P comprises the conventional mechanisms of a ten-key adding and listing machine, with the following differences: (1) there are no manually operable keys, but instead electromagnetic means are provided to set up the amounts to be added or subtracted; (2) electromagnetic means are provided for initiating an operating cycle and determining its character; (3) the sensing means are provided for furnishing electrical signals representing the amount accumulated, for transmission to the master machine K. 
The transmitter or sender unit The transmitter or sender units forming parts of the departmental machines B to E, of the master machine K and of the secondary machines L to 0 may be substantially identical. The transmitter or sender unit shown in Figs. 3, 4, 6, "7, 8, 10, and 12, is therefore intended as illustrating the sender unit, or transmitter, of the different machines in which it is employed, al- 
I though for the sake of reducing the number of (Fig. 9). 
illustrations required the sender unit is shown as a part of different machines in these figures. 
 The sender unit, as illustrated in Figs. 6 and 7, comprises a frame consisting of transverse vertical frame plates I and 2 which are held in spaced apart relation by end plates 3 and 4. This frame is supported by the outer frame plates 5 and 6 and intermediate frame plates 1 and 8 of the calculating machine in such manner that the transmitter can be installed or removed as a complete unit. 
 A brush carriage, designated generally by reference numeral 9, is mounted for transverse reciprocatory movement upon a pair of rails ['0 carried by the end plates 3 and 4 respectively. This carriage comprises a generally U-shaped frame 9a (as best shown in Fig. 7), to which is secured an insulating brush holder II for the brushes I2. In the embodiment disclosed, there are eleven of these brushes, and each lies directly beneath an associated bus bar I3 (Fig. 9). These bus bars are mounted in an insulated block M, which is fastened to the bottom surface of horizontal shelf portion 2a secured to frame plate 2 Each of the brushes 12 has a downwardly extending V-shaped portion i2a, which projects through aligning openings Ha formed in the brush holder II. All except one of the V-shaped portions [2a of these brushes are adapted, in the course of movement of the carriage, to engage and to be flexed upwardly by insulating lugs l5 secured to actuator racks 50 and thereby sense the positions of these racks. One of the brushes (2 is formed so as to contact its bus bar I3 at all times. 
Transmitter carriage feed Means are provided for progressively moving the brush-carriage 9 from left to right, or in a direction from its normal position shown in Figs. 8 and 9 toward the end plate 4. This means shears i 7. comprises a solenoid l6, which carried by the end plate 3 and L-shaped bracket [1, the latter being fastened to plate 2 by screws I 8. The exposed end of the plunger or armature I9 of the solenoid i6 is slotted to receive one end of a link 23, which is pivoted upon the pin 2! carried by said armature. The other end of link 20 is pivotally connected to a stud 25 projecting from the upwardly extending arm of the forward part 22a of dual feed bail or lever 22', said lever being pivotally mounted upon a stud 23' projecting forwardly from the plate 2, being retained thereon by a keeper 2 1. 
 The plunger [9 has a fairly close sliding fit in its guide so that its operation will be slightly retarded and cushioned due to a dashpot effect. When alternating current is used for energizing the solenoid it, the plunger 19 is preferably laminated, and in addition may be provided with electromagnetic retarding means. 
 The dual lever 22 is normally held in the position shown in Fig. 8 by a tension spring 26, one end of which is attached to the arm 22a of the lever 22, the other end being anchored to the end plate 4. The downwardly extending arm of the rearward part 22b of feed pawl lever 22 has a stud 21', which forms a pivot for feed pawl 28. Pivoted upon a stud 29-, mounted on the plate 2, is a detent pawl 30. Projecting forwardly from the pawls 28 and 30 are arms 3! and 32, respectively, the lower edges of which are beveled to engage with the teeth 33 of a feed rack 34, the latter being bolted to the brush carriage 9. These pawls are normally urged into engagement with the teeth 33 by a spring 3-5 tensioned between ears bent from pawls 28 and 30. 
 The construction is such that whenever solenoid it is energized, its armature [9 will be drawn to the left (Fig. 8), which movement, through link 20, will rock the feed pawl lever 22 counterclockwise upon its pivot 23, and draw the feed pawl 28 to the right. This movement of pawl 28 in turn, through its arm 3|, will move the feed rack 34, and hence the brush carriage 9, to the right a distance corresponding to one tooth of the rack 34. It will be notedthat during this counterclockwise turning of feed pawl lever 22, spring 26 is being tensioned So that it will rock the arm 22 clockwise on its pivot 23 when the solenoid It is deenergized. 
 In order to energize and deenergize the solehold it alternately, so as to move the brush carriage t progressively from left to right, there is provided a switch 36' (Fig. 6) in the solenoid circuit. This switch is carried by the shelf portion la of plate I, being suitably insulated therefrom, and is normally held closed by an arm 31 projecting forwardly from a switch operating slide as. As best shown in Figs. 6 and 8, this slide 38 is mounted for transverse sliding movement upon studs 25a and 39, the latter projecting forwardly from plate 2. 
 The stud 25a (Figs. 6 and 8') projects through a slot 49 to provide a lost motion connection between the arm 2% and the slide 38 to permit the armature 9 to rock the arm 22 a distance sulficient to move the brush carriage one step to the right, as previously explained, before the slide 38 is moved. When the stud 25a engages the left-hand end of slot 40, further movement of the armature l9 will shift the slide 38 to the left (Fig. 8) and its arm 31 will then permit separation of the contacts of switch 36, thus breaking the circuit to solenoid IB. 
, From the foregoing it will be understood that. 
' as soon as the solenoid I8 is deenergized, spring 26 will act to restore the lever 22 and associated parts to normal position, thus again closing switch 36. This alternate energization and deenergization of solenoid It causes the brush carriage 9 to be moved progressively from left to right for purposes later to be explained. Each time the pawl 28 is permitted to return to normal position under influence of spring 26, the detent pawl 30 prevents any retrograde movement of the brush carriage. It may be well to point out at this time that after the first energization of solenoid l6 takes place, the brush carriage 9 will be progressively moved from left to right as viewed in Figs. 8 and 12, until the solenoid circuit is broken by means other than the switch 36. This is accomplished by opening the solenoid circuit through a second solenoid switch ll which is one of a group of three switches mounted beneath shelf portion I a, as best illustrated in Fig. 12. As the brush carriage 9 nears its extreme right-hand position, an insulated arm 42 carried by said carriage opens switch 4! (thus opening the solenoid circuit) and closes switches 43 and M for purposes presently to be described. 
 The description thus far has traced the movement of brush carriage 9 from its normal lefthand position (Figs. 6-8 and 12) to its extreme right-hand position, In order to return brush carriage 9 to its normal left-hand position, there is provided a spring 45, one end of which is anchored to an ear 46 (Fig. 8) on the carriage and the other end of which is anchored to an ear 21 formed integrally with the end plate 3. It should be noted, however, that before spring is permitted to return carriage 9 to its normal position, pawls 28 and 36 must be disengaged from the teeth 33 of rack 34. This is accomplished, at the proper time relative to the movement of adding racks 5i! later to be described, by the following mechanism. 
 Referring to Figs. 6 and 8, a pawl disengaging plate 68, secured to a shaft 59, lies directly beneath the reduced ends of arms 3|, 32 of pawls 28 and 30, respectively. The shaft is pivotally mounted in end plates 3 and 4 of the transmitter frame. One end of this shaft t9 extends beyond the end plate 3' (Figs. 4 and 6), having an arm 5! rigidly attached thereto and having a switch operating bail 52 pivotally mounted thereon, the latter being positioned between said arm 5| and end plate 3 as clearly shown in Fig. 8. 
 A spring 53 (Figs. 4 and 10) is connected between a stud 5 5 projecting from arm 5!, and 
the shelf la of frame plate I, and normally urges arm 5| in a counterclockwise direction as viewed in Fig. 4, such counterclockwise movement being limited when a nose 55 of said arm strikes the bottom surface of said shelf la. Another spring 55 is connected between a stud 5'! on arm 5!, and a stud 52 on switch bail 52, and normally urges said stud 58 towards a nose surface 59 of said arm 55. A control slide (it has its forward end pivotally attached to switch operating bail 52 by a stud 6i, and its rearward end slidably supported by a shaft 62. This slide also has downwardly projecting extensions 63 and 64 which are adapted to be engaged and moved by a stud 65 carried on plate 6t fixed -to the main shaft of the calculating machine. 
When main shaft 15 is in its normal position, 
shown in Fig. 4, stud 65, contacting extension 63, 1 
holds the slide to rearwardly, thus stretching spring 53 and holding the nose 55 slightly spaced from shelf la. Under these conditions cross bar 57 of switch bail 52 holds switch 68 closed while lWitCh 69 directly therebeneath is held open. Both switches 88 and 69 are mounted upon shelf ortion la of frame plate i and suitably insulated ;herefrom as best shown in Figs. 4 and. 6. 
It willbe seen that the initial part of the clockyise movement (Fig; 4) of main shaft 15, releases ilide 88 and permits spring 53 to rock arm 5|, and consequently switch bail 52, counterclockwise It will also be apparent that-when stud 65 engages extension 64 of control slide 88, said slide will be driven forward sufficiently .to cause cross car 81 of bail 52 to close switch EQ. It may there fore be pointedout that switch 99 is closed approximately before (see Fig. 20) the end of the clockwise (Fig. 4) stroke of the main shaft 15, and that closure of this switch establishes an electric circuit for energizing solenoid 16 which in turn starts the brush carriage feedin-the manner just previously described. 
When the carriage has moved one tooth space to the right (Fig. 12), an insulated arm 42a car ried thereby moves away from switch 43, allowing it to open. When this switch is opened the electric circuit to the calculating machine motor is opened and hence further movement of main 1 shaft 15 and adding racks 58 is prevented until the brush carriage 9 has completed its entire travel from left to right tosense the stopped positions of adding racks 58, after which the calculating machine motor is restarted by closure of switch 43, all as will be more fully described hereinafter. 
 Near theend of the return stroke of the main shaft I5, the stud engages projection 63, moving the slide 68 rearwardly, swinging arm 5| clockwise, and thus through the shaft 49 and dis--. 
engaging plate 48, raising pawls 28,and.38 from i engagement with teeth 33 and permitting spring 1 45 to return the carriage 9 to its normal posi-v tion. v 
Receiver unit As shown in Fig. 4, the receiver unit 18 is illustrated as part of a master machine such as the machine A or K, and comprises upper and lower solenoid support plates H and 12 respectively, 
which are joined in spaced relation by tie studs; 
13. Rigidly mounted between these plates are a plurality of solenoids is (ten-in the unit here shown), one for each of the spring -'returned numeral keys IE. plate 12 is supported by and spaced from the conventional keyboard cover plate H, as by space 8 ing studs 18 (Fig. 4-) a distancesufficient to ac commodate the numeral keys 18. Each solenoid 14 is positioned directly abovewits corresponding The lower solenoid support 10 netic and slidably supported in the bottom solenoid bushing 8|. Each of the plungers 88 has its lower end resting upon its associated numeral key 76 and its upper end supporting the armature T9. In the master machines A and K a key button 82 may be secured to the upper end of armature 19, the key projecting above the receiver cover 83' as clearly shown in Figs. 3 and 4. This button 82 may be manually depressed for setting its corresponding numeral key 16, or the key 16 may be depressed by energization of its associated solenoid 14 by an electric impulse received from a remotely located departmental or secondary machine. 
 Rigidly mounted in end plate 84 (Fig. 14), attached to the forward end of support plates ll, 12, is a multiple prong connector 85 having a plurality of rearwardly projecting terminal lugs 86 which are connected to solenoids 14 by suitable conductors shown only in the wiring diagram, Fig. 13. 
 Referring to Figs. 3, 4, and 5, it will be observed that solenoids 81, 88, and 89 (Fig. 5) are securely attached to the keyboard cover plate 11 ;by screws 9|, and that solenoid 98 (Fig. 3) is securely attached to the underside of plate H by screws 92. When these solenoids 81, 89, 88, 98 are energized by electric signals sent from a remotely located departmental or secondary ,machine, they actuate the add key 94, subtract key I88, total key 96, and subtotal key 98, respectively. 
 As clearly shown in Figs. 3 and 5, the armature I82 of' solenoid 8'! is pivotally connected to one ,endof a link 99, and the other end of said link is' pivotally connected to one branch of a bell crank bail l8l by a stud I83. The other branch of said bail is pivotally attached to add key 94, by a stud [04. This bail is mounted for pivotal movement upon a shaft I85 which is mounted in a U-shaped bracket I96, the latter being suitably fastened to the keyboard cover plate 11. 
 From the foregoing it will be apparent that when solenoid 8'! is energized by an electric signal impulse sent from a remotely located departmental machine, its armature I82 will be drawn to the left (Figs. 3 and 5), thus rocking the bail l8! counterclockwise upon its pivot shaft 185, which in turn depresses the add key 94 to close motor switch I8! for the motor I88, thereby to start an adding cycle of the machine. 
 It will be noted (Fig. 3) that the add key 94, for the master machines, projects above the cover 83 of the receiver units. and is supplied with a key button, so that said key can be manually depressed when desired. However, if manual operation of the add, substract, total, and subtotal keys is not desired, the buttons may be omitted and the keys completely concealed by the cover 3 83 as is the case with secondary machines L to P (Fig. 2), for the sales analysis set-up, or any similar arrangement in which the total and subtotal taking operations of the secondary machines are designed to be solely under the control of a ismaster machine. 
 It will be observed from Figs. 4 and 5 that armature I89 of solenoid 89 is pivotally connected to one .end of a link H8 by a pin HI and that the other end of such link is pivotally attached to the 7o subtract'key I 88 by a shoulder bolt 1 12' and clamp numeral key 18 as clearly illustrated in Fig. 19. 1 
As shown in this figure each solenoid "is provided with an armature 19 of magnetic material, and a plunger 88, which .is preferably non-mag, 
nines will be drawn to the left one. 4) and through the. link '0 rocks the subtract key I counterclockwise on its pivot to initiate a subtract. cycle of the master machine. 
For the sake of clearness, in the wiring diagram (Fig. 13) presently to be described, separate keys"v have been shown for controlling the. total and subtotal mechanism of the calculating machines; but it will be understood that in the machines illustrated, only one key is used for total and subtotalf operations, such key being rocked. for-' wardly for total taking operations and rearwardly for subtotal taking operations. Thus, the solenoids B8 and 98 (Fig. 3) are mounted in opposed relation so that when they are energized, their armatures I I4 and I I5, respectively, will move in opposite directions. As shown in Fig. 3, a link I I6 has one end pivotall connected with armature I I4 of solenoid 88 by'a pin Ill, and its other end pivoted to a clamp IIB by a shoulder bolt I I9. This clamp is securely attached to the upper end of combined total and subtotal key lever 96,68, and it follows, therefore, that-when solenoid 88 is energized, its armature i I 4 will be moved to the; 
left (Fig. 3)., and through the link H6 will rock the total and subtotal key lever 96, 98 counterclockwise for a total taking operation. Similarly, energization of solenoid 90 causes its armature II to move to the right, and the latter, through. 
a link 90a pivotally connected at its ends to the armature H5 and to the clamp II8, respectively, 
swings the key lever 96, 98 clockwise to a subtotal taking position. Rightward movement of the Control boa: G 
 As shown in Figs to 18, the control box G comprises a casing I36 having a keyboard assembly I32 suitably mounted therein. Each of a plurality of control keys J is provided with a key stem I 34' which is guided in suitable slotted key plates I36 and I3? forming part of the assembly I32. Each of the key stems I34 is provided withg a cam portion I cooperable with a latching slide I40 and a switch operating slide I4I, these slides being suitably guided f or longitudinal movement in the keyboard assembly I32. A tension spring I42 normally holds the latching slide I40; in its rearward position, whereas the switch opcrating slide I4I is moved rearwardly by resilient switch arm I44 forming part of a switch I46 (Fig. 16). It will be noted that the control keys J It will be further noted that link I I6 has. 
are divided into two banks, one bank including a release key I49 and minus and plus control keys I50 and I5! for the second receiving unit, and minus and plus keys I52 and I5? for the first rceivingunit. The keys I45 to 553 are notutilized in the operation of the system shown in r Fig. 1, but will be referred to hereinafter in con--' nection with the description of the system of Fig.2. 
The right-hand bank of control keys J comprises subtotal and total keys I54 and I55 for the: second receiving unit and subtotal and total keys I56 and I5? for the first receiving unit. It. will be noted from Fig. 17 that the bank of'keys I54 to I5! is mounted in the keyboard assembly i3? in the same manner as the keys I49 to I53, but that the lower slide I4I for this bank of keys does notoper- 75 2I0to231I term the cable F. 
tension spring I84. 
ates. switch and", intact, is; a nonoperating mem-' berz. Each. of the: keys I'50'to I5! is. adaptedtoclose; a pair of switches and to hold such pair of switches closed as long as the key is latched in depressed. position- Asbestshown in Fig. 13, the 
key I50, upon depression, closes switches I53 and I 59;. key I5I closes switches I60 and I 6i; key I52 closes switches I62 and I63; key I53 closes switches I64; and. I65; key I54 closes switches I66 and I61; key I55 closes switches I68 and itfi; key I56 closes. switches, I'IU'and I II, and key 55'! closes switches I12 and I13. The release key 349 operates in a customarymanner to shift the latching slide .I40 forwardly to release such of the keys I50 to t53 as may have been latched in depressed position. Thelatching slide I40 for the keys I54 to I5'Iis adapted to be operated, to release any depressed keys, by means of a solenoid Il i having a plunger H6. The plunger I16 is connected to the depending arm I18 of a lever pivoted on a rod I andhaving a pair of arms I82 and IE3. The depending; lever arm I18 is normally held in the position shown in Fig. 17', with its arm I83 in abutment. with theslotted key guide plate I31, by a The other arm I 82 is adapted to. engage the rearwardiy projecting end of the latching slide I 40 to move the latter to key releasingposition whenever the solenoid I'M is energized. The keys I54 to I51, as well as the keys I49to I53, arereturned to normal position in a conventional manner, as by coil springs I8 5. 
, coupling Switches As best shown in Fig. 5, each of the sending L- and receiving units is provided with a solenoid I as having a plunger I 92 which is resiliently urged to the right (Fig. 5) by a tension spring I94. Rigidly secured to the plunger I92 is an arm I06 carrying an insulating strip I98 projecting upwardly so as to engage the rearmost of a plurality of flexible switch arms 200. These switch arms 200, as well as'a rigid switch member 204, are insulated from one anotherand mounted in a suitable supporting bracket 202. When the solenoid IE0 is energized, the insulating strip I98 flexes all of the switch arms 200 so as to bring them into contact with. one another against the rigid switch member 204. As will appear hereinafter these switch arms 20c and 20.4 are effective to couple the numeral key operating solenoids I4. in their Operating circuits. 
Circuit diagram and operation of the system shown in Figure 1 In describing the circuit diagram of Fig. 13, it 
will beassumed that departmental machine B has machine A, as well as of-the departmental machines 'B and C, are respectively connected by The bus bars conductors 2I0 :to H9, inclusive. l3 of the master-machine A and the departmental machines-B and Care. similarly respectively connected to-the conductor 2 I0 to 2 I 9. 
. The-various controlling and controlled electrical elements of the master machine A and departmental'machines B. and C are connected through- The. conductors conductors 2.20 .to 23 I, inclusive. 
 To accomplish the transfer of the total contained in departmental machine B to the master machine A, the operator of the master machine depresses key I5I, thereby closing switches H2 and I13. Closure of the switch II2 completes a circuit from the grounded terminal of the switch I12, through conductor 234, solenoid I90 of machine A, and switch 68, to the positive side of the line conductor 23I. The machines and control circuits may be operated either from an alternating current or from a direct current source, but for convenience in the description of the wiring diagram, and of the operation of the apparatus, it will be assumed that the machines are controlled by direct current. 
 Depression of the key I51 also closes switch I13 and thereby connects conductor 223 to ground, completing a circuit from the positive line conductor 23I through solenoid 90 of machine B. Energize-tion of the solenoid 90 conditions the departmental machine B for a total taking operation and initiates this operation in the following manner: As indicated by the dash lines in Fig. 13, 
the solenoid 90 for the total key 96 closes switches I Ill! and I2I. The switch I2I is closed by the projection I20 on link IIB, while switch I U! is closed through a suitable linkage operated by the total and subtotal key 96, as is more fully disclosed in the prior patent to Thomas O. Mehan No. 2 362,709. The switch I3! is then locked in closed position throughout the remainder of the machine cycle, as is more fully disclosed in the copending application of Thomas O. Mehan, Serial No. 566,980, filed December '7, 1944, which shows the locking means for the total key. Locking of the total key in its operated position maintains the switch IllI closed throughout a complete operating cycle. Closure of the switch I01 energizes the driving motor 236 of the departmental machine B through the following circuit: from positive line conductor 23I through switch I01, motor 236, and switch 43 to ground. The energization of solenoid 90, through its operation of the total key 96 of the departmental machine B, conditions the latter for a total taking operation by the usual adding machine mechanism. The departmental machine B therefore starts on a total taking cycle. At the end of the forward oscillating stroke of the main shaft i5 (Fig. 4) the pin 65 contacts the extension 64 and rocks the bail 6i counterclockwise, thereby opening switch 68 and closing switch 63. 
 Closure of the switch 69 results in the completion of a circuit from the positive line conductor 23I, through switches 69 and I2I, the winding of solenoid I6, switches 36 and M, to ground. The solenoid I6 is thus energized and though operation of the pawl 28 commences moving the sensing carriage 34 one step to the right. Upon this initial movement of the sensing carriage 34 the insulating stop arm 42a moves away (Fig. 12) thereby permitting the switch 43 to open and thus break the energizing circuit for the motor 236. The motor will thereupon coast to a stop with the racks 50 in positions repre senting the total. The spring bias of the switch arms for the switches 4|, 43, and 44, is such that when the stop arm 42a moves away from the right-hand arm of switch 43 the latter will assume a position such that both switches 43 I and 44 are open. As soon as the solenoid plunger It moves into the winding of the solenoid I6, arm 31 (Fig. 8) moves away from the insulated arm of switch 35 and opens the circuit through the' windingof said solenoid. The solenoid-I6, 
 14 under the control of the switch 36, thus continues to operate as previously described. 
 The sensing carriage 34 is thereby moved in step by step relation to bring the V-shaped portions I2a of the brushes I2 successively in alignment with the insulating lugs I5 which are secured to the actuating racks 50. It will be understood that since the total taking cycle is interrupted at the end of the clockwise operation of the main shaft I5, the actuator racks 50 will be difierentially positioned in accordance with the total entered into the accumulator and thus the total accumulated will in eirect be registered by the positions of the insulating lugs I 5. As a result, as the sensing carriage is stepped to the right by the solenoid I6, the brushes I2 will be operated in a sequence corresponding to the total which was entered into the accumulater. 
 For example, assuming that the total in the accumulator amounted to $2.56, the six leftmost racks 50 would be in zero position and as the V-shaped portion I2a of the brush I2 corresponding to 0 engages these lugs, a circuit is completed from ground through the common bus bar I 3, its brush I2, through the 0 position brush I2 and its associating bus bar I3, through conductor 2Ifl, and through the solenoid 14 associated with the 0 key of the master machine A. Thus, as successive contacts are made by the "0 brush I2 of the departmental machine, the 0 solenoid I4 of the master machine will be correspondingly energized, i. e., in the illustrative example, six times. Such operation of the zero solenoid of the master machine will not have any ultimate effect, since it will merely set up the zero stop pins in the stop pin carriage for the master machine, and since the master machine is equipped with zero elimination mechanism whereby zeros in orders higher than that in which the first significant figure appears are not printed. 
 As the sensing carriage reaches the hundreds position, the brush I2 corresponding to the 2 position will engage the insulating lug I5 of the hundreds rack 50, and will be operated thereby, completing a circuit similar to that previously described except that it will be through the conductor H2 and will energize the solenoid I4 beneath the "2 key of the master machine A. Similarl in the example given, the tens digit "5 and the units digit 6 will result in successive energization of the solenoids I4 associated respectively with the 5 and 6 keys of the master machine, thus completing the transfer of the total from the accumulator of the departmental machine B to the set-up mechanism, i. e., the pin carriage, of the master machine A. 
 When the sensing mechanism is thus moved to the units rack sensing position its insulating arm 42 engages the left contact arm of switch 43 to close switches 43 and 44 and to open switch 4I. Closure of the switch 43 results in reenergization of the motor 236 so that departmental machine B may complete the remainder of its total taking cycle. Closure of the switch 44 completes a circuit which may betraced from ground through switches 43 and 44, conductor 230, solenoid 8! of the master machine A, switch 68 of machine A, and hence to the positive line conductor 23I. Energization of the solenoid 81 will, by efiectively depressing the add key 94 of the master machine, cause the latter to execute an adding cycle thereby entering the total sensed from the departmental machine (a. g., $2.56) in the accumulator of the master machine. 
 It will be recalled that when the sensing carriage completed its rightward movement, it also opened switch II to thereby open the circuit through which the solenoid I6 was energized. The sensing carriage will therefore remain at rest temporarily. 
 As .the departmental machine B completes its total taking cycle the pin {65 (Fig. 4) engages the extension 63, thereby swinging the shaft 49 clockwise (Fig. 4) and raising the rearwardly projecting end of the arm 48 suiiiciently to en-'- gage the ears 3| and 32 of the pawls 28 and 3t and disengage these pawls from the teeth of rack 33. When thus released, the sensing car riage 34 moves leftward to the position in which it is shown in Fig. 8, by virtue of the energy stored in the tension spring 45. It will be. recalled that the closure of the switch 44 resulted in connecting conductor 230 to ground through the switches 43 and 44. In addition to energizing solenoid 87, as previousl described, connecting the conductor 230 to ground, also energized the key release solenoid I14, which, through the mechanism shown in Fig. 17, released the depressed key I'I. Thus both the master machine A and the departmental machine B are restored to normal. 
 To effect a subtotal taking operation in the departmental machine B, the sub-total key 556 will be depressed and the taking of a subtotal will be accomplished in the same manner that the total taking and transfer operation is effected, except that the subtotal solenoid 88 of the departmental machine B will be energized instead of energizing the total key operating solenoid 9B. The energization of the subtotal solenoid 88 will cause the departmental machine to go through a subtotal taking operation during the course of which the subtotal will besensed from the positions of the racks when they are arrested by the zero stop mechanism of the accumulator, and this subtotal will be entered as an amount to be added in the set-up mechanism of the master machine. Thereafter, departmental machine B will complete its subtotaling operation and the master machine will be caused to execute an adding operation. 
 Totals and 'subtotals may be taken from the departmental machine C and transferred into the master machine A in the same manner by depressing the appropriate key 154 or 155. While the diagram of Fig. 13 does not show the circuits for departmental machines D and E, it will be understood that the circuits for these latter machines-will be of the same character as those for the machines A, B and C, and will operate in the same manner. Th control keyboard G will be provided with the number of control keys J necessary to effect the control of all of the departmental machines employed in any particular installation. Since the operation of all departmental machines will-be identical with that of machine 13, further detailed description of the operation of the system in trans ferring totals and subtotals from th departmental machines C, D, and E., etc.,-to the master machine A is believed to be unnecessary. 
Circuit diagram and operation of the system shown in Figure 2 As previously pointedout, the system of .Fig. 2 
employs a master machine K in which amounts. maybe entered-v and whichhas a control .box Q 16 with keys R whereby the secondary adding machine units L, M, N, O, and P may be selected to have the amounts which have been set up in the master machine entered in the selected secondary units, either in an additive or a subtractive manner. 
 Let us assume that it is desired to enter the amount $358.00 additively in the secondary unit L and subtractively in secondary unit or machine M. The operator enters the amount $358.60 in the master machine K in the usual manner and depresses the control keys i5!) and I-53. Depression of the key I53, by closing switch 164, connects conductor 22'! to ground and thus completes a circuit from the positive line conductor 23I through closed switch 68 of machine L, solenoid winding I953, conductor 22?, and switch I64, to ground. The energization of solenoid I90 connects all of the flexible switch arms 288 to the rigid switch arm 204, which it will be noted is permanently connected to the positive line conductor 23L Thus each of the windings of the solenoids 74 of the secondary machine L has one terminal connected to the positive line conductor. 
 In a similar way depression of key Ifid, by closing switch I58, completes a circuit, including conductor 22 to energize the solenoid i9i! of the secondary machine M, and thereby conditions the solenoids is associated therewith for energization, by connecting one terminal of each of them to the positive line conductors 23L Depression of the key I53 also closes switch I85 and thus partially completes a circuit from the open switch 44 of the master machine K, through conductor 240, switch I65, conductor 229, to the winding of solenoid 8! associated with the add key 94 of the secondary machine L. 
 In a similar manner, depression of the key I50, by its closure of switch I59, partially completes a circuit from the open switch 44, conductor 2M), switch I59, and conductor 225 to the solenoid 89 associated with the subtract key I00 of the secondary unit M. 
 After entering the amount ($358.00) in the master machine and selectively operating the control keys I to I53, the operator depresses either the add key 94 or the subtract key I00 of the master machine K, depending upon whether the amount is to be added or subtracted in the 50 master machine. Upon depression of either of these keys the motor control switch Ill'I is closed, 
 thereby energizing the motor 236 of the master machine K, through the following circuit: from positive line conductor 23! through switch I01, motor 238, and switch 43, to ground. Assuming that the add key 9A of the master machine was depressed, the master machine will then commence an adding cycle and will continue through the forward oscillatory stroke of the main shaft I5 thereof until the shaft 49 (Fig. 4) is rocked counterclockwise to open switch 58 and close switch 69. When the switch 69 is closed the solenoid I6 is energized and the sensing carriage of the master machine is moved to the right. As the sensing carriage moves to the right, the insulating arm 42a moves away from the right-hand arm of the switch 43, permitting this switch to open, thereby opening the circuit to the motor 236 and stopping the operation of 70 they master machine at the point in its cycle at which the racks have moved rearwardly into engagement with the set pins of the stop pin car-. riage. The positions of the racks thus represent the amounts set up in the master machine. 
 The solenoid I6 is, l'lowever, alternately ener-