Early value setting mechanism 
US-2467441-A
nan
1949-04-19
https://patents.google.com/patent/US2467441A/en
April 19, 1949. H. F. NOLLER ET AL EARLY VALUE SETTING MECHANISM 4 Sheets-Sheet 1 Filed April 17, 1946 ef r e m mm w April 9' H. F. NOLLER ET AL 2,467,441 
EARLY VALUE SETTING MECHANISM Filed April 17, 1946 f 4 Sheets-Sheet 2 FlE-4 INVENTORS Mia/er f. NOLLER GEoRGE K/I'L R/V/ KENNETH F, Srou: 
April 19, 1949. H. F. NOLLER ET AL EARLY VALUE SETTING MECHANISM 4 Sheets-Sheet 3 Filed April 17, 1946 s m." m E/T MU L 0U wNflF. NF M I KG April 19, 1949. 
Filed April 17, 1946 EARLY VALUE SETTING MECHANISM H. F. NOLLER ET AL 4 Sheets-sheaf 4 INVENTORS HARRYF /VOLL ER 6mm K. HURN/ KENNETH F STONE Patented Apr. 19, 1949 EARLY VALUE SETTING MECHANISM Harry F. Noller, Berkeley, and George K. Hurni, Oakland, Calif and Kenneth F. Stone, Long Branch, N. J., assignors to Marchant Calculating Machine Company, acorporation of Balifornia Application April 17, 1946,,SeriaLNo. 662 322 10 Claims. l 
 The present invention relates to calculating machines which are capable of automatically performing multiplication and division calculations, and particularly consists of selection con trol mechanism which is operable immediately following initiation of a calculation, to maintain the actuator setting in the condition in which it was set under control of the depressed .keys of the keyboard, to suspend the control of the keyboard over the actuator, and to clear the keyboard so thata factor of a new calculation may be set on the keyboard while the machine is still engaged in performing the previously initiated calculation. 
 This invention is disclosed as embodied in the commercially known Marchant calculating machine shown and described in the Avery Patent No. 2,271,240 and is shown as operable with the division mechanism of that machine, but the invention is applicable as well to multiplication mechanism or any other calculating mechanism in which the factor or factors of a calculation are set up on the keyboard and the calculation is initiated by depression of an initiating key. 
 Prior art calculating machines, such as that shown in the Dustin et a1. Patent No. 2,377,767, 
'have'been provided with means for automatically clearing the divisor from the keyboard and selection mechanism asanincident to termination of a division operation, for example, so as to render the selection mechanism available for the introduction for new factors and thus save time, but 
automatic division operations frequently take such an amount of time, even in modern highspeed machines,thattheyinterrupt an operator's continuity of work; that is, it is necessary for the operator to Wait for the termination of a division operation before he can proceed with setting up a new factor. 
The present machine on the other hand attains the objective of permitting the entry of a factor of a new calculation while the machine is engaged in performing the current calculation. 
actuator. 
'Itis, therefore, a primary object of the present invention to retainthe setting of a factor in a calculating machine throughout the operation thereof and at the same time-to render the selection keyboard available for setting up a-factor of anew calculation while the machine is still engaged in performing a previously initiated calculation. 
 It is a further objectof the invention to automatically clear the keyboard upon initiation of a calculation operation Without interfering with the normal course of the machinecalculation. 
 It is a still further object of the invention to provide means independent of the selection mechanism for locking the actuating mechanism in set condition upon initiation of a division operationso that changes in the selection setting, whether accidental or intentional, are 'unable'to interfere with the division operation. 
 An additional object of the present invention is to suspend the effect of any keyboard setting upon the actuator mechanism of 'a calculating machine for the duration of a current division calculation and to automatically render such a keyboard setting eifective to set the actuator mechanism as an incident to initiation of a new calculating operation. 
 Itjis a specific object of the present'invention to lock the actuator mechanism of a calculating machine in the set position established by the setting of its selection mechanism for the duration of an initiated division operation, while automatically clearing the selection mechanism upon initiation of said operation. 
 It is'another specific object of the present invention to suspend theeffect, upon the actuator mechanism, of any new selectionsetting, for the duration of an initiated division operation, and 
to au om i l y r nd r such newr el t on setting-effective to set the actuator mechanism upon initiation of anew calculation. 
 Other objects of thepresent invention will be appar n om the fo w n detailed de cri ion of ,a preferredform of the invention, reference beinghad to the accompanying drawings forming a part of this specification, in which: 
,operatedby the setting clutch and employed ,in 
transferring a keyboard selection to the actuator mechanism. 
 Figure 3 is a detailed View of ,part of .the selection mechanism shown in Figurel. 
 Figure 4 is a right side view of the auxiliary clutch and the mechanism responsive to depression of the division key for controlling the clutch. 
 Figure 5 is a right side view of the selection locking mechanism and related control mechanism therefor. 
 Figure 6 is a right side view of part of the division mechanism of the machine embodying the present invention for comparing the divisor with the dividend or remainder and controlling the disengagement of the main clutch. 
 Figure 7 is a right side view illustrating the carriage dipping and rise controlling mechanism. 
 Figure 8 is a plan view of the setting and auxiliary clutches and the cams driven by each. 
 Figure 9 is a right side view illustrating the mechanism for automatically clearing the keyboard upon initiation of a division operation. 
 Figure 10 is a right side view of the setting clutch and part of the mechanism for controlling the same. 
 Figure 11 is a right side View of the main clutch and the mechanism for causing engagement and disengagement thereof. 
Manual selection mechanism The machine embodying the present invention includes a keyboard which is adapted to receive the entry of dividend and divisor factors, multiplicand factors, and items of addition and subtraction calculations. This keyboard is composed of numeral keys I00 (Fig. 1) which are arranged in a series of parallel banks or denominational orders consisting of ten numeral keys in each order to represent the numeral values zero to nine respectively. Each bank of keys is supported by a channel shaped frame IOI through which the key stems I03 of the various numeral keys are'slidably mounted. 
 A compression spring I02 is provided for each key to normally maintain the same in raised position. [All of the key stems I03 are of the same length, and each has a cam extrusion II6 Which upon depression of the associated key cams a slotted key locking slide II'I toward the right as viewed in Figure 1. This locking slide is supported for sliding movement on the lower side of channel frame IOI by studs mounted on the frame. 
When a numeral key stem has been depressed the cam extrusion H6 passes beneath the slide and permits the same to return to its initial position under urge of spring H8, and by overlying the upper end of the extrusion II6, latches the depressed key in its depressed position. The setting of anyvalue in a keyboard order or bank can be changed simply by depressing a different key in the same order. The depression of the second key cams the locking slide toward the right as described above and thus releases the key which was previously depressed and latched down. 
 Disposed beneath the numeral keys I00 in each bank is a diiferentially settable selection bar I20, which is suspended from channel frame IN by means of two parallel links I28 and I29, freely pivoted on studs in the frame IOI, thus permitting endwise movement of the selection bar I20. This bar I20 has nine identical V-shaped notches I30, each of which terminates in a slot I3I proportioned to receive the end of an associated key stem I03 so ,that the bar I20 will be accurately positioned. The key stems I03 are spaced equal distances apart, and these distances are slightly greater than the spacing between successive slots I3I, so that each succeeding slot I3I will be spaced one increment further away from its cooperating key stem. Depression of a numeral key will therefore cam selection bar I20 to the right a number of increments equal to the value represented by the depressed key. 
 The right end of selection bar I20 lies adjacent a stud I63 (Fig. 3), mounted on a depending arm I30 of a segment lever I32 which is pivotally mounted on a transverse shaft I31. The upper end of lever I32 is provided with a gear segment I38 which meshes with a pinion gear I45 mounted for rotation with a check dial I00 on a stationary transverse shaft It I. 
 A torsion spring I42 (Fig. 1) is wound around the shaft I4I, with one end of the spring connected to the frame of the machine and the other to a stud I03 on the check dial so as to urge the dial in a counterclockwise direction about shaft IllI. A zero stop E35, mounted on the frame of the machine, blocks such spring urged counterclockwise movement of the dial so that when none of the keys in a bank is depressed the dial is rotated to its zero position by spring I42 and blocked in such position by the zero stop, and in so doing returns the gear segment lever I32 to the normal position shown. Upon return of the segment the stud I03 thereof engages the end of the selection bar and returns the latter to the position shown. When, however, a numeral key is depressed and latched down as described above, the check dial I 40 is rotated to and maintained in the position indicative of the value of the key depressed. 
Power drive mechanism The machine embodying the present invention derives its power from an electric motor and this motive power is transmitted to the various mechanisms within the machine by three independently operable clutches and mechanism driven by each. The first of these clutches is termed the setting clutch, sometimes ref-erred to as a program clutch, which is operable in response to depression of a calculation initiating key to condition the machine for operation and control the sequence of certain of the calculation operations. The second clutch is termed the main clutch and drives the machine during the calculation operation, while the third clutch is termed the restore clutch and is operable following operation of the main clutch to restore the machine to a normal condition of rest. A fourth auxiliary clutch which constitutes a part of a novel mechanism of this invention will be described later. 
Differential actuator The numeral Wheels of the accumulator register are driven by motive power through the main clutch mentioned above and what is termed a continuous gear actuator shown and .described in the Avery Patent No. 2,271,240. The gears of this actuator are shifted to change the speed ratio in accordance with a given selection by a power set selection mechanism which is operable under control of a series of cams comprising a selection cam unit I40 (Fig. 1) for each row of keys. These cam units are set by the keyboard of the machine disclosed in the last mentioned patent and their setting corresponds at all times to the value of the key depressed in the related keyboard order and also to the same value shown on the check dial for that order. 
 According to the present invention, however, the check dials are not directly connected to the associated selection cam units but instead the cam units and check dials are each set independgentl f the other so that the cam units can be set in accordance with one value to control the operation of the machine while the check dials can be set by the keyboard in accordance with a different value such as the value of a factor of the next calculation without effecting the operation of the machine. This independent setting of the selection cams is accomplished by the following mechanism: 
Power selection mechanism A second selection segment lever I33 (Fig. 1) is freely pivoted on the shaft I31 in each order and is rockable independently of the first selection segment I32 described above. A gear segment I39 is provided. on the lower end of lever I33 and meshes with a gear I5I forming part of the selection cam unit I46 mentioned above. 
 The segments and cam units are set in accordance with the value set on the keyboard by power operated mechanism driven by the setting clutch as follows: 
 Selection bar 526 possesses a depending extension I2I which is provided with a lateral stud I22. A link I8i is connected at its right end to segment lever I33 by a stud I8I, while its free end is provided with a V-shaped notch 182 which is. positioned approximately underneath the above mentioned stud I22 and has a central reoess adapted to receive said stud. The free end of link I88 rests upon a transverse rod i83 sup-- ported by a, plurality of arms i134 which are secured to a transverse shaft I80 suitably journaled in the frame of the machine. The upper end of a lever I65 is also pinned to this shaft Idil and the lower end is connected to the left end of a link I86. The right end of the latter link is pivoted to the lower end of a cam follower I81 (Fig. 2) which cooperates with a, cam I88 which is keyed on a sleeve 4cm journaled on setting clutch shaft 43I. 
' After the setting of the aforementioned manual selection mechanism has been completed and upon depression of one of the operation control keys of the machine such as division key 910 (Fig. 4}), the setting clutch 430 (Fig. is engaged as will be described hereinafter, and power derived from the motor (not shown) is transmitted to setting, clutch shaft 43I and its sleeve 43m. Consequent rotation of cam I88 (Fig. 2) pulls link I86 toward the right and rocks supporting shaft I83 (Fig. 1) upwardly, pressing V-notch 532 of selection link I against stud I22 on selection bar I26, which positions said link to correspond with the value of whatever numeral key Hill may have been depressed. Link its in turn positions lower segment lever I33 accordingly, thus setting selection cam unit I46 to represent the value selected by depression of a key. Upon further rotation of cam I88 beyond its lobe I88a, selection link I 80 will return to its initial position under the influence of a spring IQI, disengaging stud I22 of selection bar I253. By this time means, provided in accordance with the present invention, become operative to maintain selection cam unit I45 in the position of adjustment established by the abovecam I88, as will be described hereinafter. 
Power. setting of actuator As soon as. the cam units I45 are set in accordance with the manual setting of the keyboard, poweroperated mechanism is brought into play tosense the setting of the cam units and to shift the gears of the actuator sothat. the latter will transmit to the accumulator register increments of movement which are proportional to the value originally set on the keyboard. 
 Each such cam unit comprises the previously mentioned gear I5! and five cams, one of which is shown in Fig. 1 and identified as cam I52. Each one of the cams has two high points I68 and two low points IGI on its periphery, the cams being so staggered that no high or low point on one cam is aligned with a high or low point on another cam. The various cams of cam unit I45 are so arranged that with a numeral key depressed, movement of segment I39 in response to operation of link I83 will rotate the cam unit I46 to a position in which one of the high points of one of the cams will be located in the path of a finger 2i i of one of a set of five feeler arms 2I0 on one side of the cam unit I45 or in the path of a finger 259 of one of another set of five feeler arms 2I1 on the opposite side of the unit I46. 
 Keyed on the above mentioned setting shaft sleeve 435a is also a pair of complementary cams are and 221 (Fig. 1) and an associated cam follower 224, freely pivoted on a cross rod 225 and provided with a roller 222 in engagement with cam 223 and a second roller 223 in engagement with cam 5225. As the cams rotate, the cam follower 224 is rocked counterclockwise early in the cycle to retract the ieeler fingers 2II and M9 from the selection cam units M5 to permit the setting of the latter by the Power selection mechanism" described hereinbefore. After the selection cams are so set, the cams 220 and 22I rock the cam follower 224 in a clockwise direction which then moves the feeler fingers 2| I and H9 against the peripheries of their corresponding cams at points substantially diametrically opposite one another by mechanism disclosed in said Avery Patent No. 2,271,240. 
 As pointed out hereinbefore each of the cam units !46 is so designed that only one of the associated pairs of fingers is in engagement with the high or low point of a cam at any one setting of the numeral keys I66 in the respective denominational order of the keyboard. Thus, one of the feeler arms 2m in each order Will be rocked at a considerable angle about its supporting shaft 2I3 to one side or the other of a medial position depending on whether its finger 2 is in engagement with a high point I or low point IGI of its corresponding cam while all of the other feeler arms in that order will be held in a medial position. Cams 220 and 22I make one half a revolution during the cycle, after which the opposite lobes of the cams come to the positions shown in Fig. 1 and retain the feeler fingers against the cam units throughout the remainder of the division operation and thus act to maintain the selection cam units in the position in which they were set by the power selection mechanism. Seg ments $33 will likewise be held in set position which is essential to the proper performance of a division operation because it is the position of these segments that ultimately determines the characteristic position of the sensing shelves 900 (Fig. 6). 
 Each of the feeler arms 2I0 is connected through a stud and slot connection 206 with one of five selection plates such as plate I12 which is rotatable about a transverse shaft I10. Plate I12 carries a set of gears I13 and I14, the latter meshing with a laminated gear I89 mounted on a keyed bushing I59. From the above it will be seen that four of each group of five selection plates will be held in their medial positions while the 7 fifth will be moved forward or rearward until the lowermost gear I13 thereon meshes with an aligned gear I15 on a shaft I66 or an aligned gear I16 on a shaft I61, said gears and shafts comprising the actuator unit of the machine disclosed in the Avery Patent No. 2,271,240. 
 Gear I75 is one of a group of four gears keyed on shaft I66 in each order and adapted to enmesh with the aligned gears on respective ones of the selection plates upon movement of the latter toward the left. Similarly, gear I16 is one of a group of five gears mounted on shaft H57 in each order and adapted to enmesh with aligned gears on respective ones of the five selection plates upon movement of the same toward the right. 
 The shafts I66, I61, and also a third shaft I68 are connected to a cyclically operable main clutch 428 (Fig. 11) through gear trains disclosed in detail in the aforementioned Avery Patent No. 2,271,240, the arrangement being such that shaft I66 (Fig. 1) otherwise known as the half-turn shaft rotates through 180 degrees for each cycle of operation of clutch 428 and shaft I81 (quarterturn shaft) rotates through 90 degrees for each cycle of said clutch while shaft I68 (twelfthturn shaft) moves through only 30 degrees for each cycle thereof. For the purpose of the instant description and its relation to the present invention, it is sufficient to understand that the various gears in each order of the actuator are shifted in and out of mesh with the gears on the half, quarter, and twelfth-turn shafts, so that for each main clutch cycle the gear I 89 in a given order will be rotated a number of increments corresponding to the value of whatever numeral key I determined the setting of the selection plates in the particular order. 
Selection lockin mechanism Means are provided for locking the selection plates H2 in any one of their three positions; said means comprises a locking bail 236 (Fig. 1) which extends across all orders of the actuator-selection unit and is pivoted at 231. This bail is connected by means of a link 528 to a cam follower 529 (Fig. 5) having rollers 53K! and 53! which engage two respective complementary cams 52B and 521 secured to the above mentioned setting sleeve 43m. During the setting clutch operation described in the aforementioned Avery patent these cams are rotated through an angle of 180 degrees and in the first part of the operating cycle, they rock the locking bail downwardly so the selection plates I72 and their gears may be shifted, and then during the latter part of the cycle, they rock the bail up again to lock the plates in the position to which they were shifted by the power setting mechanism which operates during the middle of the setting clutch cycle. 
Automatic keyboard clearing mechanism After the foregoing mechanisms have operated to set and lock the selection cam units and the actuator selection plates in accordance with the factor set on the keyboard, the latter is cleared to enable the setting of a new factor thereon during the process of division. The keyboard is cleared as an incident to operation of the mechanism which causes engagement of the main clutch at the beginning of a division calculation as follows: 
 As described in the aforementioned Avery Patent No. 2,271,240, a cam M? (Fig. 11), mounted on the setting shaft 43L rocks a cam follower I46 counterclockwise abouta shaft 5M. An in- 8 terponent 603 is mounted on the cam follower and when the latter is actuated by the cam, a shoulder (SIS of the interponent engages a hook 6I6 on the main clutch dog 3% and rocks the same to clutch engaging position during the latter part of the first settin clutch cycle. A link M8 also described in the last mentioned patent is provided to actuate the keyboard clearing mechanism during addition and subtraction calculations. This link connects the cam follower 746 to a lever I50 (Fig. 11) fixed to one end of a shaft 152. The other end of this shaft carries a lever TM (Fig. 9) which is adapted to engage an ear 716 formed on a link 679 when said link is lowered and the ear is positioned in the path of the lever 114. The link 179 is normally held in a raised position by a spring 183 but is lowered by depression of the plus or minus key of the machine disclosed in the last mentioned patent to cause actuation of the keyboard clear bail I25 which is freely pivoted on a shaft I25 and connected to the left end of link 'i'iii at 'liii, said link being lowered during addition and subtraction operation by a link SH also described in the same patent. 
 Means are provided in accordance with the present invention to also lower the link T19 upon depression of the division key as well as by the plus or minus key. This is accomplished by mounting an interponent 198 on the right end of link 7'59 by means of a stud HM and enlarging the aperture list to permit the division key to lower the link without actuating the add and subtract key link 8H. The interponent 190 is freely pivoted about the stud FBI and a spring I92 urges the interponent clockwise into the position shown where it lies under an ear 793 of the division key so that upon depression of said key the link will be rocked downwardly and the ear H6 positioned in the path of lever I14. 
 When the lever lid is rocked by the linkage described above during the first setting clutch cycle and moves the link I79 toward the left to clear the keyboard, the interponent I slides from under the car 193 of the division key and permits the spring 783 to raise the link I19. This moves the ear lit above and out of the path of lever lid so that subsequent rockin of the same during the repeated operation of the setting clutch in the current division calculation will not clear the keyboard again and destroy the setting of the factor of the next calculation. 
 When the division key rises at the end of division the ear 793 on the key stem will engage the side of the interponent 7951 which had previously risen and the spring 792 will yield to permit the key to rock the interponent counterclockwise about the stud lQI as the ear I93 slides along the side of the interponent. When the key has fully risen the ear E93 will pass above the interponent whereupon the spring 5'92 will rock the latter clockwise to the position shown where it underlies the ear "I93 and may be again engaged by the division key upon depression thereof for initiating the next calculation. 
Automatic division mechanism The sequence of operations involved in automatic division on machines of the type employed to illustrate the present invention is described in detail in the aforementioned Avery Patent No. 2,271,240 and will only be briefly outlined here. Depression of the division key 970 (Fig. 4) causes engagement of the setting clutch 430 (Fig. 10). This clutch drives a plurality of setting cams which affect various operations, some of which were described hereinbefore, to condition the machine for the actual division operation. These operations include the following: (1) unlocking of the previously mentioned actuator plates I12 by retraction of locking bail 236; (2) sensing of the position of the selection cam units lot by feeler arms 218 and 2!! and setting of the actuator plate I12 accordingly; (3) returning bail 238 to locking position; (4) dipping of the carriage to enmesh the register drive gears 2'll (Fig. 1) in each order of the register with the respective actuator gears 89: (5) adjusting the main reverse unit between the main clutch and the actuator shafts for negative operation; and (6) initiating operation of the main clutch. 
 In addition to these operations, the setting clutch causes specific division mechanisms to move into operative positions such as a division bail 991 (Fig. 6) and sensing shelves 9% which are normally withdrawn from operative positions forreasons which will be briefly referred to hereinafter. The first setting clutch cycle is followed by multicyclic operation of the main clutch which drives the actuator at such speeds as to subtract the divisor from the dividend once during each cycle of the main clutch. 
 Operation of the main clutch in a particular order is automatically stopped as soon as the effective dividend is reduced to a value below that of the divisor, the procedure being briefly as follows: The decreasing value of each digit of the effective dividend or remainder is represented by the position of a cam follower finger I649 (Fig. 6) which is lowered by cooperation with a cam 28! attached to the respective accumulator dial 219. The value of each digit of the divisor introduced into the machine is represented by the position of a pivot Silt. on which is mounted sensing shelf 9M. The position of pivot SM is determined by the position of selection segment 133 which for this reason is held in set position for the duration of the division operation. One end of the above mentioned sensing shelf ti t) cooperates with the feeler finger [M9, in the associated order, while the other end blocks spring-urged movement of a division control member, namely the previously mentioned division bail Gill. As cam follower finger iii-ii! is lowered by rotating snail cam it presses down against the sensing shelf Silt! rocking the shelf clockwise about the pivot 9&2 until its blocking end 996 releases the division bail Sill which then is free to move clockwise under the influence of its spring 944. This movement operates a train of levers which releases a latch 532' (Fig. 11) from underneath the main clutch dog 395', thus bringing about termination of the main clutch operation. This in turn initiates operation of the restore clutch (Fig. '7) by a mechanism described in detail in the repeatedly mentioned Avery patent. 
 Operation of the restore clutch disables the latches 515 which retains the carriage in dipped position throughout the main clutch operation and at the same time operates cams 585 controllingthe rate of return of the carriage to the position shown in Fig. 7 under the influence of a spring 559 and other springs in the itself. The restore clutch also operates mechanism which determines whether an overdraft hasioccurred or not and then causes ire-engage .ment'of the setting clutch. Follows a second setting clutch cycle and depending upon whether driving the actuators in positive direction to correct the overdraft. This cycle in turn is followed by a second restore clutch cycle in the particular order. In case that no overdraft has occurred, the arrangement is such that the second setting clutch cycle is directly followed by the above mentioned second restore clutch cycle. In both instances, this restore clutch cycle will operate to raise the carriage and initiate a single step carriage shift to the left which in turn conditions the machine to commence a new sequence of division operations in the new denominational order. 
 As described in the above mentioned Avery patent, movement of the carriage into its leftmost position establishes conditions which enable the first subsequent restore clutch operation to unlatch the division key 910 and to enable the same to rise under influence of a spring l8lll (Fig. 4) and the linkage connecting the spring to the key. In its raised position the key establishes conditions that cause termination of the division operation in the particular order upon operation of the restore clutch through the subsequent cycle. Analogous conditions prevail whenever the division key is unlatched by depression of a stop key usually provided in machines of the type under discussion to terminate division in any order. 
Repeat operation and single operation setting cams Reverting to the setting clutch and cams of the machine embodying the present invention, it will be noted that the setting operations fall in two classes: 
 (1) Those which must occur repeatedly throughout a division calculation. such as that effected by the cam 514 (Fig. 7) for dippin the carria e following each ordinal shift, and by cam M7 (Fig. 11) for causing re-engagement of the main clutch. and others; 
 (2) Those which are necessary only at the beginning of each division calculation. such as the selection setting earns 22!! and 22! (Fig. 1) for setting the actuator, and the actuator locking cams 526 and 521 (Fig. 5). and others. 
 Prior to this invention both classes of setting operations described above have been carried. on together by repeated setting clutch operations described in the aforementioned Avery Patent No. 2.271.,240. The present invention. however, provides means which will effect repeated setting operations of the first class but prevents such repeated operations of the second class during the successive operations of the setting clutch affected in the process of division, thereby considerably reducing the noise, wear, and operating load of the machine. 
 This is accomplished by mounting the cams which may be called single operation setting cams, on the sleeve 431a mentioned hereinbefore, and mounting the cams which may be called repeat operation setting cams on the setting clutch shaft 45, and by providing an auxiliary clutch which drives the sleeve 43|a and its cams. The auxiliary clutch normally couples the setting shaft to the sleeve so that during the first operation of the setting clutch, both the single operation 'and'the repeat operation cams are driven together and condition the machine for a calculation operation. If this operation is initiated by the division key, the latter causes disengagement of the auxiliary clutch at the end of its first cycle so that during the subsequent repeated operations of the setting clutch and its cams, the single operation cams will be stationary. 
 According to the present invention the various cams described above, as being mounted on the sleeve 4am and driven by the auxiliary clutch, are of such shape and arranged in such timed relation to each other that upon rotation of the auxiliary clutch during the first setting clutch cycle the cams perform their respective functions in the following sequence: 
 (1) Complementary cams 525 and 521 (Fig. retract the locking bail 236 (Fig. 1). 
 (2) Complementary cams 220 and 22! retract the feeler fingers 2H and 2I9 from engagement with the selection cam units I46 to permit the setting of the latter. 
 (3) Cam I88 (Fig. 2) actuates link I80 (Fig. 1) and sets the selection cam units I46 in each order. 
 (4) Cams 220 and HI then return the feeler fingers to sensing position and set the actuator accordingly. 
(5) Cams 525 and 521 return the locking bail 236 to the position shown in Fig. 1, thereby locking the actuator selection plates in the positions to which they were set by cams 220, Ml, item (4) above. 
 The cams which are secured to the setting clutch shaft 43I and operate at successive stages of the division operation, include: 
 (1) Cam 514 (Fig. 7) which dips the carriage to enmesh the register gears 21I with the actuator gears I89. 
 (2) Cam 141 (Fig. 11) causes engagement of the main clutch 428. 
 In addition to the above described repeat operation cams, the Marchant calculating machine includes other cams with which we are not concerned, such as cams which are driven by the setting clutch for setting the main reverse unit and enabling certain division mechanisms. Since the latter cams and the operations which they aiTect are not altered by the present invention they are not shown or described herein but may be seen upon reference to the aforementioned Avery Patent No. 2,271,240. 
 The Marchant calculating machine, in which the present invention is embodied. has a multiplication mechanism of what is known as the instantaneous type which starts immediately upon depression of a multiplier numeral key. Themachine has no way of knowing if the key depressed represents the first, last, or intermediate digit of the multiplier factor and consequently all setting operations must occur each time. As stated in the introduction of this specification, the present invention is applicable to multiplication as well as to division. It may now be more clearly seen that the invention is so applicable to multiplication if the machine in- Auxiliary clutch The auxiliary clutch I380 (Figs. 4' and 8) described only generally hereinbefore includes a clutch disc tBI which is integral with the sleeve 43m and a clutch ratchet 482 which is integral with the setting shaft 43 I This clutch is a halfrevolution clutch and therefore includes two pawls 483 and 484 (Fig. 4) pivotally mounted on studs M35 and 486 respectively, carried on the clutch disc 48L Each pawl is spring-urged into engagement with one of two teeth of the ratchet 482 so that normally the disc, sleeve and its single operation cams are driven by and with the setting clutch shaft and its ratchet 482. 
 A clutch control dog l81 (Fig. 4) is held away from the auxiliary clutch when the machine is in the normal condition of rest so that the clutch will be in the engaged condition shown and, therefore, rotate with the setting shaft during its initial operation. If the machine operation is initiated by the division key, the clutch control dog is released and rocked counterclockwise under the urge of a spring 4810 until it is blocked by the periphery of the clutch disc 48L When the auxiliary clutch has nearly completed its cycle (a half revolution), the nose of one of the pawls 483 or 4'84 is blocked by the ear 481a and rocked out of engagement with the tooth of the ratchet 482. At the same time, the tail of this dog engages the nose of the other dog, thereby rocking the latter out of engagement with the second tooth of the ratchet, and thus causing complete disengagement of the clutch. The clutch is held in this disengaged condition until the division key rises at the end of a division calculation, whereupon the clutch control dog is rocked outwardly to the position shown to permit re-engagement of the auxiliary clutch preparatory to the next calculation. 
Auxiliary clutch control mechanism As stated briefly hereinbefore, the single operation cams are normally coupled to the setting clutch shaft by the auxiliary clutch and operate with the setting clutch during multiplication by each multiplier digit. They also operate in this way in addition and subtraction and during the first setting clutch cycle in division calculation, but are disabled by disengagement of the auxiliary clutch during all subsequent setting clutch operations in division for the reasons set forth hereinbefore. This clutch disengagement is brought about by depression of the division key which adjusts certain mechanisms as follows: 
 The division key 910 (Fig. 4) is mounted on two parallel links 912 and 913, the latter of which includes an ear 980' which is moved upwardly and toward the left when the division key is depressed and is held in such position by a latch 982 thereby maintaining the division key in depressed position throughout the division calculation. A link 965 connects a downwardly extending arm of link 913 to a bell crank I026 secured to shaft I256 which is rocked clockwise upon depression of the division key through the above described above described mechanism so as to disable themanual shift control mechanism which includes the link I483. it depresses the shelf H361) and rocks the lever I136 downwardly or clockwise about its pivot When the stud I483a is lowered t'O' the rightv of tooth I129. 
 13 flie and in "so 'doin'g' moves a stud l'l36a, mounted on the right end of lever I136, downwardly "andfiom beneath a nose 48113 of the aforemen- "tion'ed auxiliary clutch control dog 48? to permit the latter to rock to clutch disengaging position described above. 
 The depression of the division key also moves a link 5' (Fig-) downwardly by mechanism described in the last mentioned Avery patent, and rocks'the setting clutch control dog 354 counterclockwise to cause engagement of the setting clutch 430 which drives the auxiliary clutch 480 (Fig. 4-) through a half revolution after which the latter clutch is disengaged as described under thesection heading Auxiliary clutch. Since the division key is held down throughout the entire division calculation, the auxiliary clutch control dog 48'! remains in its clutch disengaging position so that subsequent operations of the setting clutch are ineffective to drive the auxn whatis known as the second setting clutch cycle in-the terminating order of division. It is necessa'ry'to prevent such operation of the auxiliary clutch so as to prevent resetting of the actuator in accordance with the new factor set upon the keyboard if such setting has been made during the division calculation. This prevention is necsary to avoid an erroneous result in case an overdraft has occurred in the last order, which would require a final corrective main clutch cycle following the second setting clutch cycle. 
 As previously explained, division key 97!) is operatively connected to a shaft I256 so that upon depression of the key the shaft I255 is rocked clockwise as viewed in Fig. 4 against the force of a restore spring 4808' connected between the machine frame and an ear on lever [304 secured to shaft I256. To delay restoration of the division key after release of latch 982 during the first restore clutch cycle in the terminating order of division, a member H22 (Fig. 7) is pro-- vided, the upper fork of which has a tooth H253 adapted to engage an ear I802 of lever wil and to control the latter in a manner described in detail in Boyden Patent No. 2,393,018 dated J anuary 15, 1946, to which reference may be had for a detailed description of the mechanism not specifically described herein. Member I T22 is pivotally mounted on a link Hi3 by means of a stud H23 and is provided with a spring 125 tensioned between a tail of the member and a machine frame stud so as to constrain member I lZ-Zto-rock counterclockwise about its pivot N23. The lower end of link I753 is pivotally connected, by astud I124, to an arm H25 pivotally mounted on the frame of the machine at me, while the upper end of link |1l3 is pivotally connected to an arm I H4 fixed to a shaft 6!!!! which is rocked counterclockwise by the carriage dipping mech-- anism during each setting clutch cycle and clockwise during each restore clutch cycle as described indetail in the aforementioned Avery Patent No. 2,271,240. The latching tooth I129 (Fig. '7) is so positioned that-when the division key 919 is held in depressed position by latch 982, ear 1802 stands When latch 982 is released a limited amount of upward movement of key 979 is permitted to prevent re-engagement of latch 982, but latching tooth I129 prevents any appreciable counterclockwise movement of lever tiltso that link i136 (Fig. 4) is unable to rise suhiciently to cause rte-engagement of the auxiliary clutch. 
 As the carriage is dipped during the middle part of the second setting clutch cycle by opertion of the setting cam 514 (Fig. 7) the link H13 and member I122 are moved toward the left as viewed in Fig. '7 thereby permitting the lever [804 and shaft I256 to gradually rock counterclockwise'under urge of the spring I86! and thus cause the division key to rise. Near the end of the leftward movement of link H22 a camming surface I'M!) engages a frame stud I'Mfla which rocks the member I122 upwardly to completely release the lever i894 from restraint of the latching tooth H29 so that the carriage may again rise during the last restore clutch cycle and the memher [122 may return to the position shown without engaging the car 1802 and rocking lever I884 with it. 
 The counterclockwise rocking of shaft I255 described above move the links M76 and 483 (Fig. 4) upwardly and the consequent upward movement of stud Mesa carried by the latter link permits the sprir 5-82 to pull the link H36 upwardly and to rock the auxi ry clutch control dog to clutch engaging pos. ..on shown. The clutch pawls 483 lit; are then free to rock inwardly under spring pressure, and upon completion of the second and last setting clutch cycle in the terminating order of division, the teeth of the ratchet 68:! come to a stop in the position shown, in engagement with the pawls 583 and 434 and in condition to drive the same and the auxiliary clutch cams upon initiation of the next calculation. 
Summary Calculating machines which are capable of performing calculations automatically include mechanisms for causing repeated operation both for conditioning the machine for calculation and for actually performing the calculations in the successive denominational orders. Some of the conditioning mechanisms must operate repeatedly but others need be operated only at the beginning of multi-crder calculation. The present invention described hereinbefore provides mechanism for effecting all necessary conditioning operations at the beginning of the calculation and then suspends operation of all such conditioning mechanism not needed throughout the rest of the calculation, but permits the operation of all hose which are needed in or before the calculations in. each denominational order. 
 Machines of the class described, enter or transfer the dividend from the keyboard to the accumulator in a well-known manner, after which the divisor is set up on the keyboard. Upon depression of a calculation initiating key this factor is transferred to or set in part of the calculation control mechanism by a power selection mechanism driven by a setting clutch and is retained therein to control the calculation operations of the machine. The actuator is set by a power setting mechanism also driven by the setting clutch in accordance with the value of the factor set on the keyboard and is thus effective to control the positive or negative entry of the selected numeral value into the accumulator, In division calculation, the divisor is constant throughout the calculation and therefore when the division key is depressed to initiate the calculation, this key is effective, in the embodiment of the invention illustrated, to disconnect the setting clutch from the power selection and actuator setting mechanism and the locking mecha nism, so that subsequent recurring operations of the setting clutch during the process of division will not unnecessarily and repeatedly operate these mechanisms. This disconnection is in the form of an auxiliary clutch which is normally engaged so as to transmit power from the setting clutch to the cam which operates the above mechanism, and which is disengaged at the end of the first setting clutch cycle so as to thereafter suspend operation of these mechanisms. After the selection and actuator mechanisms are set and locked, the keyboard is then automatically cleared and disconnected from the other mecha" nisms to permit the setting of a new factor on the keyboard without effecting the current calculation operations of the machine. 
 The division key is latched down throughout a division calculation and therefore the auxiliary clutch is held disengaged throughout that calculation. The division key latch may be tripped at any stage of the division calculation by depression of a stop key, provided in the machine embodying the present invention, whereupon the division key will be permitted to rise at the proper time by subsequent operation of an automatic division key releasing means, to thereby terminate the division upon completion of the operation in the current order; or, the latch is tripped automatically upon movement of the carriage into its extreme end position, whereupon the division key rises and stops the division mechanism upon completion of the operation in the last order. 
 When the division key rises either following depression of the stop key or following movement of the carriage into the end position, the auxiliary clutch control dog is moved to clutch engaging position and the auxiliary clutch becomes engaged at the end of the last setting clutch cycle. The machine thereafter comes to a stop without operation of the auxiliary clutch but the latter is in condition to transmit power from the setting clutch to the power selection mechanism and actuator setting and locking mechanisms during the first cycle of the setting clutch in the next calculation regardless of What kind of calculation it is. 
We claim: 
 1. In a calculating machine having a register, an actuator therefor, and a keyboard settable to represent a selected numeral value, a cyclic clutch, power selection mechanism controlled by the keyboard and operated by the clutch to adjust the actuator in accordance with the setting of the keyboard, and a device driven by said clutch and having a locking phase of operation during which it locks the actuators in the position to which the same was adjusted by said power selection mechanism and having an unlocking phase of operation during which it unlocks said actuator; the combination of, a manually settable key for initiating a machine operation including recurring cycles of operation of said clutch, with means jointly responsive to said key upon setting thereof and to said clutch upon operation thereof through the first of said recurring cycles for suspending operation of the power selection mechanism and suspending operation of said device through its unlocking phase by said clutch during subsequent recurring cycles of operation thereof. 
 2. In a calculating machine having conditioning mechanism operable to condition the machine for calculation operations, and a cyclic clutch operable through recurring cycles of operation during the calculation operations; the combination of, an auxiliary clutch operable upon engagement thereof to enable operation of the conditioning mechanism by said cyclis clutch and effective upon disengagement thereof to suspend operation of the conditioning mechanism by the cyclic clutch, a manually adjustable key for initiating a machine operation including said recurring cyclic operation of the cyclic clutch, and a device responsive to adjustment of the key for disengaging said auxiliary clutch upon operation of the cyclic clutch through the first of its recurring cycles of operation, with a device operable to terminate the operation of the machine, and means responsive to operation of said terminating device for causing re--enga-gement of said auxiliary clutch during the last of said recurring cycles of operation of the cyclic clutch. 
 3. In a calculating machine having a register, a differential actuator therefor, a factor receiving device adjustable in accordance with the numeral value of a factor received, and setting means operable to set the actuator in accordance with the adjustment of said receiving device; the combination of a cyclic clutch for operating said setting means as aforesaid, means for suspending operation of the setting means by said clutch, a manually adjustable key for initiating a machine operation including recurring cycles of operation of said cyclic clutch, and means responsive to adjustment of said key and operable during the first of said recurring cycles of said clutch for causing operation of said suspending means, with a device operable to terminate said machin operation, and means responsive to said terminating device and operable during the last of said recurring cycles of the clutch to disable said suspending means. 
 4. In a calculating machine having selection mechanism settable to represent various numeral values, a register, motor drive means, diiferential actuators controlled by the selection mechanism and operable by the motor drive means to actuate said register, and a program clutch intermittently operable through recurring cycles to cause recurring operations of the actuators during a plural order calculation; the combination of, a normally engaged auxiliary clutch operabl by and with the program clutch and capable of disengagement to suspend operation of the auxiliary clutch with the program clutch during certain of said recurring cycles of the latter, a key for initiating operation of the program clutch, and means controlled by said key for disengaging the auxiliary clutch during the first of said recurring cycles of the program clutch, with control mechanism for the actuators including a two phase device driven by the auxiliary clutch and operable in the first phase of said device to connect the actuators to the selection mechanism to cause the latter to adjust the actuators and operable in the second phase of said device to disconnect the actuators from the selection mechanism. 
 5. In a calculating machine having selection mechanism settable to represent various numeral values, a register, motor drive means, differential said register, and a program clutch intermittently operable through recurring cycles to cause recurring operations of the actuators during a plural order calculation; the combination of, a normally engaged auxiliary clutch cyclically operable by and with the program clutch and capable of disengagement to suspend operation of the auxiliary clutch with the program clutch during certain of the recurring cycles of the latter, control mechanism for the actuators including a cyclically operable device driven through two phases of each cycle thereof by the auxiliary clutch during a single cycle of the latter and operable in the first phase of a cycle to connect the actuators to the selection mechanism to cause the latter to adjust the actuators and operable in the second phase of the same cycle to disconnect the actuators from the selection mechanism, a key for initiating operation of the program clutch, and means controlled by said key for disengaging the auxiliary clutch during the first of said recurring cycles of the program clutch. 
 6. In a motor driven calculating machine having selection mechanism settable to represent various numeral values, a register, selectively adjustable differential actuators therefor, a main clutch efiective upon engagement thereof to drive the actuators, and a program clutch intermittently operable through recurring single cycles of operation to cause recurring engagement of the main clutch during -a plural order calculation; a normally engaged auxiliary clutch which when so engaged is coupled to the program clutch and operable therewith and capable of disengagement to suspend operation of the auxiliary clutch during subsequent cycles of the program clutch, control mechanism for the actuators including a device driven through two phases of operation by the auxiliary clutch and operable in its first phase to connect the actuators to the selection mechanism to cause the latter to adjust the actuators and operable in its second phase to disconnect the actuators from the selection mechanism, a key for initiating operation of the program clutch, and means controlled by said key for disengaging the auxiliary clutch at the end of the first of said recurring cycles of the program clutch to suspend operation of said device during subsequent cycles of the latter clutch. 
 7. In a motor driven calculating machine having selection mechanism settable to represent selected numeral values, a register, selectively adjustable differential actuators therefor, motor operated drive means for said actuators, a pro gram clutch intermittently operable through re curring cycles to cause recurring operations of the actuator drive means during a plural order calculation, and a cyclically operable auxiliary clutch; the combination of, actuator control means including a two phase device driven by the auxiliary clutch and operable during the first phase of said device to connect the actuators to the selection mechanism to cause the latter to adjust the actuators and operable in the second phase of said device to disconnect the actuators from the selection. mechanism, means also driven by the auxiliary clutch and rendered effective to lock the actuators in adjusted condition after adjustment thereof by the selection mechanism and before disconnection of the actuators from the selection mechanism by said control means, numeral keys for resetting the selection mechanism, a key for initiating operation of the program and auxiliary clutches, and means controlled by the initiating key to cause disengagement of the auxiliary clutch at the end of its first cycle and prevent operation thereof during 18 the subsequent recur-ring cycles of the program clutch. 
 8. In a motor driven calculating machine having selection mechanism settable to represent selected numeral values, a register, selectively adjustable differential actuators therefor, motor operated drive means for said actuators, a program clutch intermittently operable through recurring cycles to cause recurring operations of the actuator drive means during a plural order calculation, and a cyclically operable auxiliary clutch; the combination of, actuator control means including a two phase device driven by the auxiliary clutch and operable during the first phase of said device to connect the actuators to the selection mechanism to cause the latter to adjust the actuators and operable in the second phase of said device to disconnect the actuators from the selection mechanism, means also driven by the auxiliary clutch and rendered efiective to lock the actuators in adjusted condition after adjustment thereof by the selection mechanism and before disconnection of the actuators from the selection mechanism, numeral keys for resetting the selection mechanism, a key for initiating operation of the program and auxiliary clutches, and means controlled by the initiating key to cause disengagement of the auxiliary clutch at the end of its first cycle and thereby render the selection mechanism inefiective to change the adjustment of the actuators during the subsequent recurring cycles of the program clutch. 
 9. In a calculating machine having a keyboard settable to represent a selected numeral value, a register, an actuator selectively adjustable under control of said keyboard to actuate said register, and a cyclic clutch; the combination of, a device driven by said clutch and having a first phase of operation during which it connects the actuators to the keyboard to cause the latter to adjust the actuator and having a second phase of operation during which it disconnects the actuator from the keyboard, keyboard clearing mechanism, and a member driven by said clutch in such timed relation to said device as to cause operation of said clearing mechanism after operation of said device through its second phase, with a manually settable key for initiating a machine operation including recurring cycles of operation of said clutch, means jointly responsive to said key upon setting thereof and to said clutch upon operation thereof through the first of said recurring cycles to suspend operation of said device and said member by said clutch during subsequent recurring cycles of operation thereof. 
 10. In a calculating machine having selection mechanism, a register, calculating mechanism operable to control said register, cyclically operable motor drive means for said calculating mechanism, differentially settable control means comprising a part of said calculating mechanism for determining the number of cyclic operations of the motor drive means, a cyclic clutch for causing a plurality of recurring operations of said drive means during a plural order calculation, a device driven by said clutch and having a first phase during which it connects the differentially settable means to the selection mechanism to cause the latter to set the settable means and a second phase during which it disconnects the settable means from the selection mechanism; the combination of, a manually depressible key for initiating operation of the calculation mechanism including recurring cycles of operation of said clutch, with means controlled by said key and responsive to said clutch upon operation thereof .through the first of said recurring cycles for suspending operation of said device by said clutch during subsequent recurring cycles of operation thereof. 
HARRY F. NOLLER. GEORGE K. HURNI. KENNETH F. STONE. 
REFERENCES CITED The following references are of record in the file of this patent: 
Number Certificate of Qorrection Patent No. 2,467,441. April 19, 1949. 
 HARRY F. NOLLER ET AL. It is hereby certified that error appears in the printed specification of the above numbered patent requiring correction as follows: 
Column 16, line 8, claim 2, for cyclis read cyclic; 
and that the said Letters Patent should be read With this correction therein that the same may conform to the record of the case in the Patent Ofiice. 
Signed and sealed this 15th day of November, A. D. 1949. 
THOMAS F. MURPHY, 
Assistant Commissioner of Patents. 
 Certificate of crrection Patent No. 2,467,441. Apri1 19, 1949. 
HARRY F. NOLLER ET AL. 
It is hereby certified that error appears in the printed specification ofthe above nlimbered patent requiring correction as follows: 
 Column 16, line 8, claim 2, for cyclis read cyclic; and that the said Letters Patent should be read With this correction therein that the same may conform to the record of the case in the Patent Ofiice. 
Signed and sealed this 15th day of November, A. D. 1949. 
THOMAS F. MURPHY, 
Assistant Commissioner of Patents.