Ordinal trans-setting 
US-2539659-A
nan
1951-01-30
https://patents.google.com/patent/US2539659A/en
Jan. 30, 1951 F. A. DEUTSCH ORDINAL TRANS-SETTING MECHANISM FOR REGISTERS 3 Sheets-Sheet 1 Filed May '7, 1949 INVEI'JTOR. FRITZ ALBERT DEUTSCH ATTORNF'Y Jan. 30, 1951 F. A. DEUTSCH ORDINAL TRANS-SETTING MECHANISM FOR REGISTERS Filed May 7, 1949 3 Sheets-Sheet 2 IN! EN TOR. 
FRITZ ALBERT DEUTSCH ATTORNEY fiatented Jan. 30, 1951 UNITED STATES ?ATENT OFFICE 2,539,659 ORDINAL TRANS-SETTING MECHANISM FOR REGISTERS Fritz Albert De'utsch, New York, N. Y. 
Application May 7 1949, Serial No. 91,897 
11 Claims. (01. 235-719) This invention relates to calculating machines. 
 As; well known in the art, multiplications and divisions are carried out in calculating machines bythe performance of repeated additions and subtractions respectively. i For example, the answer to the multiplying problem 225x423 may be found in the following manner: At first the multi-order setting mechanismand the register of the calculating machine are brought into such a relationship to each other, that the first order of the setting mechanism is in cooperative relation to the first order of the register, the second order of the setting mechanism is incooperative relation to the second order of the register, the third order of the setting mechanism is in cooperative relation to the third order of the register, and so on. Then the multiplicand 225 set in the setting mechanism is added three times whereby the partial product 675 is entered into the register. Thereafter, the setting mechanism and the register are denominationally shifted relative to each other to the extent of one order, so that now the first order of the setting mechanism is in cooperative relation to the second order of the register or V the partial result entered therein respectivel, the second order of the setting mechanism is in cooperative relation to the third order of the register or the partial result respectively, and so on. Then, the multiplicand 225 set in the setting mechanism is added two times whereby the partial product 1 '7 5 is registered in the register. Thereafter, the setting mechanism and the register'are again denominationally shifted relative to each other to the extent of one order, so that now the first order of the setting mechanism is in cooperative relation to the third order of the register or of the partial result registered therein respectively, the second order of the setting mechannsm is in cooperative relation to the fourth order of the register or of the partial result respectively, and so on. Then, the multiplicand 225 set in the setting mechanism is added four times whereby the final product 9 5 1 '7 5 of the multiplying problem 225x423 is registered in the register. 
 In case of adivision similar steps, but in a reversed manner, are performed. At first the setting mechanism and the register are brought into such a position relative to each other that the highest order of the setting mechanism is in cooperative relation to the second highest order of the register. After the performance of the first subtraction, the setting mechanism and r iste are dsmm n i ne j h e etive to each other to the extent of one order in such a manner, that the highest order of the setting mechanism is in cooperative relation to the third highest order of the register, Where upon the second subtraction is carried out. Then the setting mechanism and register are again denominationally shifted relative to each other to the extent of one order, so that now the highest order of the setting mechanism is in cooperative relation to the fourth highest order of the register, whereupon the third subtraction is carried .out, and so on. 
 In hitherto known calculatingmachines, above mentioned denominational relative shifting of the setting mechanism and register is obtained either by a mechanical displacement, order by order, of the setting mechanism relative to the stationary register or by a mechanical displacement, order by order, of the-register relative to the stationary setting mechanism. Consequently, 
the register of sucha calculating machine must be equipped with a great number of orders, which inturn requires a considerable width of the calculating machine. For example, if such a calculating machine shall be constructed for the performanceof a division of a 'T-figure dividend by a 'l-figure divisior to a 7'-figure quotient, the calcu latingmachinemust be provided with a l3-order register. Moreover, owing tosaid denominational shifting of the setting mechanism and the register relative to each'othenthe valueef theremainder to be divided by the divisor is shifted order by order from the highest order towards the first order in the register, so that, under circumstances, chain tens-transfers through a great number of orders of the register occur during the performance of a division, such chain tens-transfers requiring considerable power to drive the machine. 
 An object of the present invention is to.overcome above mentioned disadvantages of hitherto known calculating machines. 
 Another object of the present invention is to provide a calculating machine of comparatively small width, wherein the register has only one order in excess of the orders of the setting meche anismand yetpermits a division of a dividend by a divisor, both having the same number of figures as the setting mechanism has numbers of orders. 
 A further object of the invent on is to provide a calculating machine, the manipulation of which is facilitated by the elimination of a resettingof the setting mechanism and register relative to each other into their initial positionafter the occurrence of chain tens-transfers during division may be restricted to the highest orders of the register, so that comparatively little power is needed for the drive of the machine during the performance of a division. 
 A further object of the present invention is to provide a mechanism for shifting the value entered into a registering device of a calculating machine by one order in either direction. 
 Still another object of the present invention is to provide a calculating machine with a storage device associated with the register, which storage device may be used for indicating subtotals. 
 A further object of the present invention is to provide a calculating machine with means, by which values entered into the register and into the counter may be shifted in said register and in said counter by one order in either direction. 
 Another object of the present invention is to improve on the art of calculating machines as now ordinarily made. 
 Other objects and structural details of the invention will be apparent from the following description when read in conjunction with the accompanying drawings forming part of this specification, wherein: 
 Fig. 1 is a fragmentary vertical sectional view of a calculating machine according to the invention, 
 Fig. 2 is a sectional view taken on line 2-2 of Fig. 1, 
 Fig. 3 is a sectional view taken on line 3-3 of Fig. 2, 
 Figs. 4-7 are somewhat diagrammatical illustrations indicating various positions of the wheels of the register and its associated storage device and indicating various relative positions between said register and storage device for theexplanation of steps-taken during the shifting of a value in the register by one order, 
 Fig. 8 is a fragmentary view of a portion of a calculating machine illustrating the arrangement of a storage device associated with a register and a counter, and 
Fig. 9 is a sectional view taken on line 9-9 of Fig.8. The drawings illustrate only those parts of a calculating machine which are necessary for the understanding of the invention. As an example, the mechanism according to the invention is appied to a calculating machine of the type disclosed in my copending U. S. patent application Ser. #713,317 filed on November 30, 1946. Reference is had herewith to said copending application Ser. #713,317 for a detailed disclosure of the mechanisms of this type of calculating machines. However, it is understood that the present invention may also be applied to calculating machines of different construction. 
 Referring now to Fig. l which substantially corresponds to a view of my copending application Ser. #713,317 above referred to, generally indicates a casing of a calculating machine. A multi-order setting mechanism 22 is suitably mounted in said casing 20. Said multi-order setting mechanism 22 includes a multi-order keyboard generally indicated by 24 (only one order being shown in Fig. 1) and a multi-order actuator generally indicated by 26. Said multiorder actuator 26 comprises a plurality of actuator elements 28, each of said actuator elements 28 being connected to a digit key of the multi-order keyboard 24. The setting of a value into the multi-order actuator by a key or keys of the multi-order keyboard 24 is fully described in my copending application Ser. #713,317. 
 3i] generally indicates a multi-order register arranged in a carriage 32. Said carriage 32 is provided with four rollers 34, only two of them being shown in Fig. 2, which are in engagement with rails 36 secured to side walls of the casing 20. A shaft 38 rotatably but axially immovably arranged in said carriage 32 projects therefrom on either side passing through slots 40 of the side walls of the casing 26. A knurled resetting knob 42 is secured to the right-hand end of the shaft 38 as viewed in Fig. 2. The carriage 32 may be reciprocated in the direction of the longitudinal axis of the calculating machine by gripping the ends of the shaft 38 projecting from the side walls of the casing 29. Such a reciprocation of the carriage 32 causes a movement of the register 38 relative to the actuator 26, whereby values entered into the setting mechanism 22 are transferred into the register as described in detail in my copending patent application Ser. #713,317. 
 The multi-order register 39 comprises a series of denominational order number wheels 44, for example nine order number wheels in the embodiment shown in the drawings. Each of said number wheels 54 is rotatably arranged on a sleeve 46 arranged on the shaft 38. A pin 48 secured to the shaft 33 and engaged with a slot 59 of the sleeve 36 prevents the sleeve from rotation relative to the shaft 38, but permits an axial shifting of the sleeve 46 relative to the shaft 38 to a certain extent, as required for the entry of values from the setting mechanism 22 into the register 38 according to the particular mechanism of the calculating machine described in my copending application Ser. #713,317. It will be noted, however, that said limited reciprocating axial shifting of the sleeve 46 and the number wheels 45 3 mounted thereon at equal distances a from each other extends through a distance which is smaller than said distance a between adjacent orders or" the register number wheels M and the same distance between adjacent orders of the actuator elements 28 of the multi-order actuator 25. In other words, this limited reciprocating shifting does not represent a denominational shifting of the number wheels 44 of the register 3% relative to the actuator elements 28 of the actuator 26. I As will become apparent hereinafter, a denominational shifting of the register 30 and setting mechanism 22 relative to each other for the performance of the multiplications or divisions is unnecessary according to the invention. Furthermore, the features of the invention permit the arrangement of a multi-order setting mechanism, which may have up to one order less than the niulti-order register has. Thus, if, as shown in the drawings, the register has nine orders, the setting mechanism may have up to eight orders. 
 Each of the register number wheels 44 is frictionally coupled with the sleeve 46 by means of a spring 52 (see Figs. 1 and 3) one end of which is secured to the wheel M, the other end of which is slidably engaged with said sleeve 46. Further-- more, each register number wheel 44 is provided with ten pins 54 secured to the circumference of the wheel 44st equal distances,:one of said pins, the {pin 54a being somewhat larger than the others. Moreover, each of said number wheels 44 'is' provided with the numerals 0, l, 2 9 at its circumference at equal distances. 
.For a purpose to be described hereinafter, .each 
of the number wheels 44 except the number wheel of the lowest order and the number wheel of the highest order is provided with a gear 56 on its right hand side, as viewed in 2 and a gear 58 on its left-hand side as viewed in Fig. 2. The number wheel of the lowest order has only one gear'EB at its left-hand side and tie number wheel of the highest order has only one gear 56 at its right hand side. The gears 55 and 58 coaxially arranged to the associated number wheels 44 are rigidly connected with the latter, for example by screws. 
[.The number wheels are spaced from each other by spacers in such a way that the pins 54 of adjacent order number wheels are at equal distances a from each other. 
 The shaft 38 may be held in a predetermined angular position relative to the carriage '32 by means of a spring one end of which is secured to the frame of the carriage '32, the other end of which may be engaged with a flattened portion or recess 54 or the like of the shaft 38. 
 The end position of the carriage 32 shown in Figs. 1 and 2 is limited by an abutment 56 mounted on the right-hand side of the casing 28 for engagement with the hub of the resetting knob 42 and may be secured by means of a spring 88 arranged at the left-hand side of the casing 26. One end of said spring 58 is connected to the casing 28, the other hook-like end of said spring is arranged for engagement with the shaft 38. 
 Each register number wheel 44 is arranged for cooperation with a tens carry preparing element or transfer preparer generally indicated by it having an upwardly extending lug T2 and being swingably but axially immovably mounted on a cross-bar '14 carried by the frame of the carriage 32. Said tens carry preparing elements or transfer preparers pertain to the tens carry mechanism which includes also the tens transfer bars generally indicated by 78 tiltably mounted in the casing 2d. The operation of said tens carry mechanism id-45 is fully described in my copending application #213317. The upwardly extending lug 72 of each transfer preparer it normally rests by the action of the Weight of said transfer preparer or by the action of a spring (not shown) on an abutting rod 78 extending between the side frames of the carriage 32. The short register pins 54 of each register wheel 44 are short enough that they may pass said lug T2 without actuating same or being blocked by same, when the register wheels 44 are rotated The long register pin 54a, however, is of such a length that said lug 12 is in its path, when the register wheels 44 are rotated. 
 Thus, the lugs 12 of the transfer preparers 10 may be used as elements of a zeroizing or clearing mechanism associated with the register 30. For 
example, if it is desired to zeroize the register 30, 
the shaft 33 may be rotated by means of the resetting knob 42 through 360 in the direction of the arrow C (see Fig; 3). In so far as the register number wheels 44 are in such a position that the'numeral 0 appears in the register window 80 (see Fig.1) at the top of the casing 20 prior-to the Zeroizing operation, the'long register pin 54a' abuts against the lug 12 oi the associated transfer; 
preparer 10, whereby the registerwheel is blocked so that above-mentioned rotation of the register shaft 38 by the resetting knob 42 remains without influence on such a register wheel frictionally coupled with the sleeve 46 taken along by the rotation of the register shaft 38 through the medium of the pin '48 engaged with the slot 5|]. In so far as the register wheels 44 are in such a position that a numeral other than 0 appears in the register window, the register wheel will participate in the rotation of the register shaft 38 and sleeve 46 by the resetting knob 42 until the long register pin 54a abuts against the lug 12 of the associated transfer preparer I0, whereupon the register wheel is arrested in its O-pcsition, whereupon a continuation of the rotation of the shaft38 has no longer an influence on the register wheel 44. Thus, the register may be readily zeroized, for example by above-described rotation of the resetting knob 42 in the direction of the arrow C, so that the register is cleared from a value previously entered therein and only the numerals 0 appear in the register window 80. 
 As best shown in Figs. 1-3, a multi-order storage device generally indicated by 82 is arranged adjacent to the register at! for cooperation therewith in a manner to be described hereinafter. According to the embodiment shown in the drawings, a shaft 84 of the storage device 32 is rotatably and axially shiftably arranged in the walls of the casing 20. The axial displacement of said shaft 84 is limited by a set collar 85 secured to the left-hand end of the shaft 34 and by a sleeve 88 secured to the shaft 84 by screws 90. Said set collar 85 and sleeve 88 cooperate with the wall of the casin 29. The angular position of the shaft 84 relative to the casing 29 is secured by a spring 92 one end of which is secured to the wall 20, the other end of which is engaged with a flattened portion or recess 34 at the right-hand end of the shaft 84. A resetting knob 9 a is secured to the right-hand end of the shaft 84 projecting from the casing 20. 
 A set of eight denominational order elements 98, i. e. one order less than there are orders in the register 36, is rotatably arranged on the storage device shaft 84. The order clement Q8 of the highest order abuts against the right-hand end of the set sleeve 83 and the order element 93 of the lowest order abuts against a set sleeve secured to the shaft 84 by a screw 192. The order elements 98 are spaced from each other at the distance b equal'to the distance a between the order wheels 44 of the register 39 by means of spacers H14. 
As best shown in Fig. 3, each order element 98- of the storage device 82 is frictionally coupled with the storage device shaft 34 by means of a spring 1126, one end of which is connected to theorder element 98, the other end of which rests on the shaft 84. 
 According to the embodiment shown in the drawings, each order element 98 comprises a portion I08 bearing numerals 0, 1 9 at equal distances on its circumference and a gear llil, said The gears Hi3 of the denominational order elements 98 of the accumulator 82 are arranged forsele tiv e hi ensas me twith h se ts .6: 
 7 of the register 80 or with the gears 58 of said register 38. Such a meshing engagement can be effected by an axial shifting of the storage device shaft 84 by hand. According to Fig. 2, the gears H of the denominational order elements of the storage device 82 are in a neutral position wherein they are out of engagement with gears 56 or 58 of the register 38. If desired, said neutral position could be secured by a safety device (not shown), for example by a spring having a protrusion capable of snapping into a. dent of the shaft 84. If the shaft 84 isshifted to the right (as viewed in Fig. 2) until the set collar 85 abuts against the wall of the casing 25, the gears l I 8 of the storage device 82 are brought into meshing engagement with the gears 58 of the register 38 as shown in Fig. 4. If the shaft 88 is shifted to the left as viewed in Fig. 2 until the set sleeve 88 abuts against the wall of the casing 20, the gears HG of the storage device 82 are brought into mesh ng engagement with the gears 56 of the register 85 as shown in Fig. 6. As will be readily understood, when the gears N8 of the storage device 82 are either in meshing engagement with the gears 58 of the register 38 or in meshing engagement with the gears 55 of said. register 38, a rotation of a register wheel 44, the gear 58 or 56 of wh ch is in meshing engagement with a gear H8 of a denominational order element 88 of the storage device 82 will cause a proportional rotation of said denominat onal order element 98 and vice versa. In the embodiment shown in the drawings the radio between a gear 55 or a gear 58 of the register and a gear I it of the storage device is 1:1, so that, if, for example, a register number wheel 44 is rotated through of one revolution, the associated storage device order element 98 is, likewise, rotated through of one revolution and vice versa, 
 If desired, above-mentioned extreme positions of the storage device shaft 88 wherein the gears H8 of the storage device are either in engagement with the gears 55 or the gears 58 of the register could be secured by a shifting device (not shown) for example by springs having protrusions capable of engagement with dents of the shaft 85. 
 Each denominational order element 98 of the storage device 82 is provided with a pin H4 projecting from the side thereof. When the denominational order element 98 is in such a position that the numeral 0 appears in the window H2, 1. e., the position indicated in Figs. 1-3, the pin H4 abuts against a stop arm N6 of a member H8 secured to the bottom of the casing 20. Said pins i It and arms l 56 may be used for zeroizing or clearing the storage device 82. 
 If, for example, the denominational order elements 98 of the storage device 82 are in the neutral position shown in Fig. 2, the zeroizing of the storage device 82 may be effected by a rotation of the storage device shaft 84 in the direction of the arrow D (see Fig. 3) by means of the resetting knob 95. In so far as, prior to the zeroizing operation, the order elements 98 are in a O-position wherein the numeral 0 appears in the storage device window l 52, if the portion 88 of the order elements is provided with numerals, the pins ii i abut against the arms H of the member H8, whereby the order elements 98 are blocked so that the rotation of the storage device shaft 84 by the resetting knob 95 remains without influence on such a storage device order element frictionally coupled with said shaft 84. In so far as the storage device order elements the setting knob 96 through 360 in the direction of the arrow D, for example. 
 On the other hand, it will be understood that, if the gears H8 of the denominational order elements 98 of the storage device 82 are in meshing engagement either with the gears 55 or with the gears 58 of the register 85, the storage device 82 may be zeroized if the resetting knob 42 of the register shaft 38 is rotated in the direction of the arrow E (see Fig. 3) provided that the frictional engagement between the register number wheels M and the sleeve 46 is stronger than the frictional engagement between the storage device order elements 98. If the storage device is zeroized in this manner, the value entered previously into the storage device 82 is transferred into those register number wheels 56, the gears of which are in meshing engagement with the gears I I8 of the storage device order elements 98. If, for example, prior to the Zeroizing operation, a storage device order element 58 is in its 2-position, it will be rotated by the gear 58 or 58 of the associated register number wheel 44 which was in its O-position through 1%- of one revolution until its pin Ht abuts against the arm H8 when it reaches its O-position, so thatowing to the ratio 1:1 between the gears of the storage device and the register-the associated register number wheel is, likewise, rotated through of one revolution and, consequently, is brought into its 2-position; in other words, the value 2 has been transferred from the storage device order element to the associated register number wheel while, at the same time, the storage device order element has been zeroized. Y 
 If the gears l 38 of the storage device order elements 98 are in meshing engagement either with the gears 55 or the gears 52% Of the register 30, a zeroizing of the storage device, under simultaneous transfer of the value from the storage device into the register may also be effected by rotating the resetting knob 28 of the storage device in the direction of the arrow D (Fig. 3) provided that the frictional coupling between the storage device order elements 88 and the storage device shaft 84 is stronger than the frictional coupling between the register number wheel 44 and the sleeve 55. 
 Moreover, it will be readily understood that a value entered into number wheels id of the register 38 may be readily transferred from the register 30 into denominational order elements 98 of the storage device 85; if the gears H8 of the latter are in meshing engagement either with the gears 55 or the gears 58 of the register, when the register is zeroized by rotating its resetting knob 42 in the direction of the arrow C (Fig. 3), 
 provided the frictional coupling between the register number wheels 54 and the sleeve 48 is stronger than the frictional coupling between the storage device order elements 98 and the shaft 84. Of course, if the frictional coupling between the storage device order elements 98 and the shaft 84 is'stronger than the frictional coupling be. i tween the register number wheels 44 and the mag-s sleeve 46, and if the gears llll of. the storage device 82 are in meshing engagement either with the gears 58 or with the gears 58 of the register 30, the register 30 may be zeroized under simultaneous transfer of a value previously entered therein into the storage device by rotating the resetting knob es of the storage device 82 in the direction of the arrow F (see Fig. 3). 
 For the following description of the manipulation of the calculating machine, it is assumed that the frictional coupling between the denominational order elements. 98' of the storage device 82 is somewhat stronger than the frictional coupling between the denominational order number wheels 44 of the register 30 and the sleeve 46, 
 Assume now that the eight denominational order elements 98 of the storage device 82 are in the neutral position shown in Fig. '2 and that a division shall be performed in the calculating machine. 
- At first, the division is entered by means of the 8-order setting m chanism 22 into the Q-order register 39 in such away that the highest order of the dividend appears in the second highest order of the register. 
 Assume now that after the first series of repeated additions of the complement of the divisor, the 9-order register indicates the value 0 0 5 1 '7 5 0 0 0. 
 Now the storage device shaft 34 is shifted tov the right (as viewed in, Fig. 2) so that the gears Ill] of the eight storage device order elements 98 are brought into meshing engagement with the gears 58 of the first to eighth order of the register numeral wheels 44 of the register 30, as shown in Fig. 4. Thus, in the position shown in Fig. 4, the first order of the storage device order elements is associated with the first order of the register number wheels, the second order of the storage device order elements is associated with the second order of the register number wheels and so on. 
Thereafter, the storage device shaft 84 is rotat d throu h one full revolution by means of the resetting knob 95 the dire tion of the arrow F, whereby, in the manner described above, the register 3 is zeroized and the value 0 5 l 7 5 0 O 0 is transferred from the first to eighth order of the register into the first to ei hth order of the storage device 82, as shown in Fig. 5. 
' Now th denominational order elements 98 of the stora e device 82 are dencminationalh shift d relative to the denominational number wheels 44 of the register 38 by one order to the left. so that the gears Ii v of th storage device 82 are brought into meshing en a ement with the gears 3 of the register 39. Thus, now the first order of the storage device order elements is associated with the second order of the re ister number wheels, the second order of the storage device order elements is as ociat d with the third order of the register number whee s. and so on. 
 Thereaft r, the storage device shaft 84 is again rotated through one full revolution by means of the resettin knob 95, which, however, this time is in the direction of the arrow D, whereby, in the manner described above, the storage device is zeroized the value 0 5 1 '7 5'0!) 0 is transferred from the first to eighth order of the storage device 82 into the second to ninth order of the register as shown in Fig. 7. 
 Now the order elements 93 of the storage device may be returned into-their neutral: position 10' shown in Fig. 2 by shifting the storage device shaft 84 somewhat to the right. 
 A comparison of Figs. 4 and 7 with each other shows that by the manipulation described above through the medium of the storage device 82 the value 5 l '7 5 appearing, in Fig. 4 in the fourth to seventh order of the register 36 has been shifted in said register by one order to the left, so that it now appears in the fifth to eighth order of the register. This shifting of the value in the register renders unnecessary a shifting of the setting mechanism relative to the register for a continuation. of the'division. 
 After said shifting of the value in the register- 32? by means of the storage device 82, the division may be continued in an analogous manner which does not require further description. 
If the calculating machine is operated in the. 
manner described above, the highest order of the" value to be divided is always entered into the second highest order of the register 39, so that chain tens transfers, which might occur during the performance ofv a division are restricted to the highest orders of the register. 
 Moreover, as, according to the invention, the setting mechanism is not shifted order by order relative to the register for the performance of a division, it becomes unnecessary to reset the setting mechanism into its initial position after the performance of sucha division so as to render same ready for a subsequent division.- 
 Furthermore, the provision of a storage device in a calculating machine according to the invention contributes to a considerable reduction of the width of a calculating machine, as there is no longer need for space requiredby a relative shifting between the setting mechanism and the register as' is customary in hitherto known cal.- culating machines. A calculating machine according to the invention may be equipped with a register, which has only one order in excess of theorders of the setting mechanism and yet permits a'd-ivision of a dividend by a divisor, both having the same number of figures as the setting mechanism has numbers of orders. 
 Assume now that a multiplying operation shall be carried out and that after the first series of additions of the multiplicand, the register 30 indicates the value 0 5 1 7 5 0 0'0 0 and that the denominational order elements of the storage device: 82 are in the neutral position. 
 Then the storage device shaft 84 is shifted to the left until the set sleeve 88 abuts against the wall of the casing 2!], whereby the gears H0 of the storage device 82 are brought into meshing engagement with the gears 56 of the register wheels 44 as shown in Fig. 7. In said position of Fig. 7, the first order element of the storage device 82 is associated with the second order number wheel 44 of the register 38, the second order element of the storage device 82 is associated with the third order number wheel 44 of the register 39 and so on. 
 Then, in themanner described above, the register 30 is zeroized and the value 0 5 1. '7 5 0 0 0 is transferred from the second to ninth order number wheel 44 of the register 30 to the first to eighth order element 98 of the storage device 82, as shown in Fig. 6. 
 Thereafter, the storage device shaft 84 is shifted to the right, until the set collar 86 abuts against the wall of the casing 20, whereby the gears H0 of the storage device 82 are brought into meshing engagement with the gears 58V or the register 30 as shown in Fig; 5. In said position of Fig. 5, the first order element of the storage device 82 is associated with the first order number wheel 44 of the register 30, the second order element of the storage device 82 is associated with the second order number wheel 44 of the register 30 and so on. 
 Thereafter, in the manner described above, the storage device 82 is zeroized and the value 1 '7 5 0 0 0 is transferred into the first to eighth order of the register 30, as shown in Fig. 4. 
 Thus, a comparison of Figs. '7 and 4 shows that by means of above-described manipulation, the value 5 1 7 5 appearing in Fig. 7 in the fifth to eighth order of the register 30 has been shifted in the register by one order to the right, so that it appears in Fig. 4 in the fourth to seventh order of the register 30. 
 Now the multiplying operation may be con tinued in an analogous manner without a denominational shifting of the setting mechanism relative to the register. 
 Thus, it becomes obvious that after the performance of a multiplication, it is, likewise, unnecessary to reset the setting mechanism relative to the register into its initial position and conditioning the calculating machine for a new multiplying operation. as no denominational shif ing between the setting mechanism and the register took place during the preceding multiplying operation. 
 If desired, the storage device 82 according to this invention may also be used for indicating a sub-total. In such a case, at first the storage device shaft 82 is set in its intermediate neutral position wherein the gears l H] are out of engagement with gears of the register 30. After the performance of a series of additions whereby a certain value has been entered into the register 30, the storage device shaft 84 is shifted to the right into its extreme position wherein the first to eighth order elements 98 of the storage device 82 are in operative engagement with the gears 58 of the first to eighth order number wheels 44 of the register. Then the register is zeroized and the sub-total value previously appearing therein is transferred into the storage device 82. Thereafter, the storage device shaft 84 is returned into its intermediate neutral position wherein the sub-total value can be read through the window H2. At a suitable time, the sub-total value can be re-transferred into the register by shifting the storage device shaft 84 to the right for engagement of the gears ll!) of the storage device with gears 58 of register number wheels of the same order and by zeroizing the storage device. 
 Of course, if desired for any reason whatsoever, the register 3i! or the storage device 82 may be zeroized individually without transferring a value from one to the other one. In such a case, the storage device 82 is set in its neutral position wherein its gears I Ill are out of engagement with gears of the register 30. Then the register 30 may be zeroized individually by a rotation of the resetting knob 42 in the direction of the arrow C or the storage device may be zeroized by a rotation of the resetting knob 96 in the direction of the arrow D.' 
 Figs. Sand 9 illustrate the application of a storagedevice 282 according to the invention to aucalculating machine equipped with a counter 2 I. 
 The storage device 282 is arranged for cooperation with the register 23!] and the counter 20! of the calculating machine, which, for example, 
may be of a type disclosed in the copending ap= plication Serial Number 713,317. 
 Again the register 230 arranged in the reoipro cable carriage 232 is provided with a series of denominational order number wheels 244 each of which, except the number wheel of the lowest order and the number wheel of the highest order, being rigidly connected with coaxial gears 256 and 258. The register number wheel 244 of the lowest order has only a gear 256 opposite the adjacent register number wheel of the second order and the register number wheel of the highest order has only a gear 258 opposite the adjacent register number wheel of the second highest order. Each of the register number wheels 244 is again provided with ten pins 254, the pin 254a of said series of pins being longer for cooperation with the zeroizing lugs 212. The register number wheels 244 are again frictionally coupled by means of springs 252 with a sleeve 246 mounted on a shaft 238 carrying a resetting knob 242 at its end projecting from the casing 220. The sleeve 24B is prevented from rotation relative to the shaft 238 by a suitable connection, which, however, permits a slight axial displacement of the sleeve 246 relative to the shaft 238 as required for the entry of values from the setting mechanism into the register 23%. The register number wheels 244 are spaced from each other by means of spacers 260 in such a way that pins 254 of number wheels of adjacent orders are at equal distances at from each other. 
 The counter 253i of the embodiment shown in Figs. 8 and 9 comprises a series of denominational order number wheels 2G3 rotatably arranged on a counter shaft 2535. Each of said counter number wheels 203 is frictionally coupled with said counter shaft 285 by means of a s ring 261, one end of which is secured to the counter number wheel, the other end of which is in engagement with the counter shaft 205. The counter shaft 295 is rotatably arranged in the casing 220 and carries a resetting knob 25]!) at its end projecting from the casing 220. The counter wheels 2% are spaced from each other by spacers 2 i I in such a manner that the distances '0 between the centers of counter wheels of adjacent orders are of equal length and equal to the distance a between the pins of the register number wheels 244. 
 The counter wheel 223 of the first order and the counter wheel of the highest order (not shown) carries ten equally spaced pins 213. Said pins 2H3 are arranged for actuation by actuating means (not shown) during the performance of a multiplication or a division respectively. For example, actuating means connected to the reciprocable carriage 232 may be arranged for advancing the counter wheel of the lowest order by means of its pins 213 one step for each addition carried out during the performance of a multiplication and for advancing in a similar manner the counter wheel of the highest order for each addition of a complement during the performance of a division. 
 Each counter wheel 293, except for the counter wheel of the lowest order and the counter wheel of the highest order, is provided with a coaxial gear 2 i 5 on its side opposite to thecounter wheel of the adjacent lower order and with a gear 2i! on its side opposite to the counter wheel of the adjacent higher order. The counter wheel of the lowest order has only one gear 2 H at its side opposite to the counter wheel of the second order and the counter wheel of the highest order has 13 only one gear at its side opposite to the counter wheel of the second highest order. Said gears 2!5 and 2 I! are rigidly connected with the counter wheels 293'. 
 Furthermore, each counter wheel is provided with a pin 2!9 arranged for cooperating abutment with. arm 22! of a zeroizing member 223 secured to the bottom of the casing 229. The counter wheel 293 is in its O-pcsition when its pin 219 abuts against the arm 22!. 
 .The storage device 292 of the embodiment shown in Figs. 8 and 9 is providedwith twosets of denominational order elements 298. and 299, each of said denominational order elements being frictionally coupled by means of springs 296 with the shaft 284 rotatably and axially shiitably ar-. 
ranged in the casing of the calculating machine. A resetting knob 299 is secured to the. storage device shaft 284. The order elements 299 are provided with numerals 0, l 9 at their circumierencean-d have a toothed portion or gear. 225 arranged for selective cooperationwith gears 2.55 and 258 of the register 239. The order elements 289 are provided with toothed portions or gears 22larranged for selective engagement with gears "255 and 21? of the counter 29!. The order elements of the storage device 282 are spaced from each other by spacers 294' in such a manner that the gears 225 of the set of order elements 299 are equally spaced from each other at the distance 2) and that the gears 22'! of the set of order elements 299 are equally spaced from each other at. the distance 2), said distance b being equal to the distance a between pins of the register wheels 2M and said distance I) I being equal to the distance between the center of the counter number wheels 293. 
 Fig. 8 illustrates the shaft 284 of the storage device 282 in its intermediate neutral position wherein all gears 225 and 22"! of the two sets of denominational order elements 298 and 292 of the storage device 2 82 are out of engagement with gears of the register 239 and gears of the counter 20!. The storage device shaft 294 may be shifted to the left into an extreme position limited by a stop (not shown) wherein the gears 225 of the order elements 299 of the storage device 282 are in meshing engagement with gears 258 of'the register 239 and wherein the gears 22'. of the order elements of the storage device are in meshing engagem it'with the gears 215 of the counter 29!. Furthermore, the storage device shaft 284 may be shifted to the right into an extreme positionlimited by stop (not shown) wherein the gears 225 of the order elements 293 of the storage device 82 are in meshing engagement with the gears 259 of the register 239 and the gears 22"! of the order elements 299 of the storage device are in meshing engagement with the gears 2 i of the counter 29!. 
 In other words, when the storage device 292 is in its extreme left-handposition, its deno-mina tional order elements 293 and 299 are in register with denominational order number wheels of thenext higher order of the register 2 39 and counter 2 re -ectivelv', for example, the gear 22.5 of the order element 298 of the first order of the storage device 282- meshes with the gear 258 of the second order or the register 23 the gear 22; of the order element 299 of the first order of the storage device meshes with the gear 2!5 of the secon order of the co nter 29!, and so on. If t e to'e-"e device 292 is in its extreme ri"hthand'p sition, its order elements 298 and 299 are in register with order numberwheeis" orthe register 239 andcounter 29! of the same order, for example the gear 225 of the order element 298 of the first order of the storage device 282 meshes with the gear 256 of the first order of the register 239, the gear 22'! of the order element 299 of the first order of the storage device 282 meshes with the gear 2!! of the first order of the counter 29! and so on. 
 Each of the order elements 298 and 299 of the storage device 282 is rovided with pins 2M arranged for cooperation with uprights 229 of a zeroizing member 2!9 secured to the bottom of the casing 229. When the order elements 298 and 299 of the storage device 292 are in their 0-- position, the pins 2 U! are in abutting engagement with said uprights 229. 
 The storage device 282 may be zeroized for ex-- ample by rotating the shaft 284 by means of the resetting knob 296 through one full revolution in the direction of the arrow D (s e Fig. 9'). 
 When the order elements 298 and 299 of the storage device 282 are in their neutral positionas' shown in Fig. 8, the register 239 may be zeroized by rotating the shaft 239 by means of there-- setting knob 242 in the direction of the arrow C (see Fig. 9), and the counter 29! may be zeroized by rotating the shaft 295 by means of the resetting knob 299 through one full revolution in the direction of the arrow G (see Fig. 9).. 
 If the frictional coupling between the order elements 298 and 299 of the storage device 282' and the storage device shaft 28 is stronger than the the counter number wheels 293 and the counter shaft 295, and if the ears of the order elements of the storage device 282 are either in engagement with the gears 259 and 2 l of the register 239 and counter 29! respectively or in enga ement with the gears 258 and 2l5 of the regist r 239 and counter 29! respectively, the register 239 and the counter 29! may be zeroized and Values previously entered therein may be simultan ously transferred into the ord r elements of the stora e device 292 by a rotation of the storage shaft 284 by means of the resett ng knob 299 through a full revo ution in the direction of the arrow F (s e Fig. 9). 
 On the other hand, a value previousl ente ed into the set of order elements 299' and a value previous y ent red into the set of order elements 299 of the storage device 292 may be simultaneouslv transferred into those register number whee s 244 and into those counter number heels 293, the gears of which are in engagement with the gears of the storage device 292, wh n the stora e device shaft 284 is rotated bv the resetting kno 295 thro gh a full revo uti n n the direct on of the arrow D, whereby, at the same time, the storage device 292 is zeroi ed. 
 Thus, it will be readil understood that values entered into orders of the register 239 and entered into orders of the counter 2 mav be sh fted in the register and counter respectively by one order to the left or to the right b means offa manipulation of the storag devic 2 2 corr sponding to the manipulation of the storage device 92 described. above in connection with. Figs. 
 Ihave described preferred embodiments of my invention, but it is understood that this disclosure is for the purpose of illustration. and that various omissions or changes in shape, proportion and arrang ment of parts, as well as the substitution of equivalent elements for those herein shown and" described may be made without departing steam is from the spirit and scope of the invention as setforth in the appended claims. 
 For example, the storage device according to the invention may be used in conjunction with any registering device of a calculating machine capable of indicating values therein. It does not matter by what means such a registering device may be zeroized. However, it is of importance that the rotation of each order element of the registering device is transferred at a predetermined ratio unto an order element of the storage device which may be moved along a straight line path or a curved path or a circular path or in any other suitable manner. The desired shifting by one order to the left or to the right of a value previously entered into the registering device is obtained by a re-transfer of the value from the storage device into the registering device, which has been zeroized during the preceding transfer of the value entered therein into the storage device; said re-transfer of the value into the registering device is carried out after the storage device and the registering device have been shifted relative to each other in such a way that the order elements of the storage device are in operative engagement with order elements of the register of the next higher or next lower order What I claim is: 
 1. In a calculating machine, in combination: a multi-order registering device including a series of denominational order elements capable of indicating values entered therein, a multi-order storage device including a series of denominational order elements, said series of denominational order elements of said registering device and said series of denominational order elements of said storage device being denominationaily shiftable relative to each other for a single order shift, means associated with said relatively shiftable series of denominational order elements for placing same in a predetermined position relative to each other, said denominational order elements of the registering device and of the storage device .being capable of mutual operative engagement when placed in denominational alignment with each other, first zeroizing means associated with said registering device whereby a value entered therein may be zeroized and transferred into denominational order elements of said storage device which are in denominational alignment with denominational order elements of said re: istering device, and second zeroizing means associated with said storage device whereby a value transferred into denominational order elements of said storage device may be zeroized and transferred into denominational order elements of said registering device which are in denominational alignment with denominational order elements of said storage device. 
 2. In a calculating machine as claimed in claim 1, said series of denominational order elements of the registering device and said series of denominational order elements of the storage device being shiftable relative to each other into a first position, wherein denominational order elements of the storage device are in denominational alignment with denominational order elements of the same order of the registering de-. vice, and into a second position, wherein denominational order elements of the storage device are in denominational align-ment with denominational order elements of the next order of the registering device. 
 3. In a calculating machine as claimed in claim 1, said series of denominational order elements of the registering device and said series of denominational order elements of the storage device being shiftable relative to each other into a first position, wherein denominational order elements of the storage device are in denominational alignment with denominational order elements of the same order of the registering device, into a second position, wherein denominational order elements of the storage device are in denominational alignment with denominational order elements of the next order of the registering device, and into a third position, wherein denominational order elements of the storage device are out of denominational alignment with denominational order elements of the registering device. 
 4. In a calculating machine as claimed in claim 1, coupling members of disengageable coupling means connected to the denominational order elements of the registering device and to the denominational order elements of the storage device, said coupling members being arranged for mutual operative engagement when the denominational elements of the registering device-and storage device are ordinally aligned. 
 5. In a calculating machine, in combination: a multi-order registering device including a series of denominational order number wheels capable of indicating values entered therein, a multiorder storage device including a series of toothed denominational order elements, said series of denominational order number wheels of said registering device and said series of toothed denominational order elements of said storage device being denominationally shiftable relative to each other for a single order shift, means associated with said relatlvely shiftable series of denomina tional order number wheels and toothed denominational order elements for placing same in a predetermined position relative to each other, gears connected to the denominational order number wheels of the registering device, said gears of the registering device and said toothed order elements of the storage device being arranged for meshing engagement when brought into engagement with each other, first zeroizing means associated with said registering device whereby a value entered therein may be zeroized and transferred into toothed denominational order elements of said storage device which are in meshing engagement with gears connected to denominational number wheels of said registering device, and second zeroizing means associated with said storage device whereby a value transferred into toothed denominational order elements of said storage device may be zeroized and transferred into those denominational order number wheels of said registering device of which the gears connected thereto are in meshing engagement with toothed denominational order elements of said storage device. 
 6. In a calculating machine as claimed in claim 5, a gear arranged on each side of a demoninational order number wheel of the registering device which is opposite to a side of an adjacent denominational order number wheel, and each toothed denominational order element of the storage device being arranged for selective meshing engagement with one of two gears of the registering device arranged on opposite sides of two adjacent denominational order number wheels thereof. 
7. In a calculating machine as claimed in claim 5, each toothed denominational order element of 17 the storage device comprising a number wheel and a gear connected thereto. 
 8. In a calculating machine as claimed in claim 5, a gear arranged on each side of a denominational order number wheel of the registering device which is opposite to a side of an adjacent denominational order number wheel, each toothed denominational order element of the storage device comprising a number wheel and a gear connected thereto, and each gear of the storage device being arranged for selective meshing engagement with one of two gears of the registering device arranged on opposite sides of two adjacent denominational order number wheels thereof. 
 9. In a calculating machine, in combination: a multi-order register including a series of denominational order number wheels capable of indicating values entered therein, a multi-order counter including a series of denominational order number wheels capable of indicating values entered therein, a multi-order storage device including a first series of denominational order elements and a second series of denominational order elements, said series of denominational order number wheels of said register and said first series of denominational order elements of said storage device being denominationally shiftable relative to each other for a single order shift, said series of denominational order number wheels of said counter and said second series of denominational order elements of said storage device being denominaticnally shiftable relative to each other for a single order shift, means associated with said relatively shiftable series of denominational order elements of said storage device and denominational order number wheels of said register and counter for placing same in a predetermined position relative to each other, said denominational order number wheels of said register and said first series of denominational order elements of said storage device being capable of mutual operative engagement when placed in denominational alignment with each other, said denominational order number wheels of said counter and said second series of denominational order elements of said storage device being capable of mutual operative engagement when placed in denominational alignment with each other, first zeroizing means associated with said register whereby a value entered therein may be zeroized and transferred into denominational order elements of the first series of denominational order elements of the storage device which are in denominational alignment with denominational order number wheels of said register, second zeroizing means associated with said counter whereby a value entered therein may be zeroized and transferred into denominational order elements of the second series or denominational order elements of the storage device which are in denominational alignment with denominational order number wheels of said counter, and third zeroizing means associated with said storage device whereby values transferred into denominational order elements of said storage device may be zeroized and transferred into denominational order number Wheels of the register and counter which are in denominational alignment with denominational order elements of said storage device. 
 10. In a calculating machine as claimed in claim 9, said series of denominational order elements of the storage device and said series of denominational order number wheels of the register and of the counter being shiftable relative to each other into a first position, wherein denominational order elements of the first series of denominational order elements of the storage device are in denominational alignment with denominational order number wheels of the same order of the register and denominational order elements of the second series of denominational order elements of the storage device are in denominational alignment with denominational order number wheels of the same order of the counter, and into a second position, wherein denominational order elements of the first series of denominational order elements of the storage device are in denominational alignment with denominational order number wheels of the next order of the register and denominational order elements of the second series of denominational order elements of the storage device are in denominational alignment with denominational order number wheels of the next order of the count- 11. In a calculating machine as claimed in claim 9, said series of denominational order elements of the storage device and said series of denominational order number wheels of the register and of the counter being shiftable relative to each other into a first position, wherein denominational order elements of the first series of denominational order elements of the storage device are in denominational alignment with denominational order number wheels of the same order of the register and denominational order elements of the second series of denominational order elements of the storage device are in denominational alignment with denominational order number wheels of the same order of the counter, into a second position, wherein denominational order elements of the first series of denominationa1 order elements of the storage device are in denominational alignment with denominational order number wheels of the next order of the register and denominational order elements of the second series of denominational order elements of the storage device are in denominational alignment with denominational order number wheels of the next order of the counter, and into a third position, wherein the denominational order elements of the storage device are out of denominational alignment with denominational order number wheels of the register and counter. 
FRITZ ALBERT DEUTSCH. 
REFERENCES CITED The following references are of record in the file or" this patent: 
UNITED STATES PATENTS Number Name Date 1,209,857 Laudsiedel Dec. 26, 1916 2,042,342 Kaiser May 26, 1936 2,173,635 Pott Sept. 19, 1939 2,266,366 Heinze Dec. 16, 1941 2,298,263 Chick Oct. 6, 1942 2,383,731 Mathi Aug. 28, 1945 2,416,369 Avery Feb. 25, 1947