Cycle initiating mechanism for ten key machines 
US-2675960-A
Ncr Co
1954-04-20
https://patents.google.com/patent/US2675960A/en
April 20, 1954 N. R. FRIEBERG ET AL CYCLE INITIATING MECHANISM FOR TEN KEY MACHINES Filed Feb. 10, 1953 10 Sheets-Sheet l THElR ATTORNEYS April 20, 1954 N. R. FRIEBERG ET Al. 
CYCLE INITIATING MECHANISM FOR TEN KEY MACHINES l0 Sheets-Sheet 2 Filed Feb. 10, 1953 INVENTORS NELSON R. FRIEBERG a PAUL A. DALE BY THEIR ATTORNEYS April 20, 1954 N. R. FRIEBERG ET AL CYCLE INITIATING MECHANISM FOR TEN KEY MACHINES l0 Sheets-Sheet 5 Filed Feb. 10, 1953 INVENTORS NELSON R. FRIEBERG 8 PAUL A. DALE xii THEIR ATTORNEYS April 20, 1954 N. R. FRIEBERG ET AL v2,675,960 
CYCLE INITIATING MECHANISM FOR TEN KEY MACHINES l0 Sheets-Sheet 4 Filed Feb. 10, 1953 INVENTORS NELSON R. FRIEBERG 8| PAUL A. DALE w/(Z5102; 
mwm 0mm THEIR ATTORNEYS April 20, 1954 N. R. FRIEBERG ET AL CYCLE INITIATING MECHANISM FOR TEN KEY MACHINES 10 Shee ts-Sheet 5 Filed Feb. 10, 1953 9 of 5 any m ms 8 ME R E NR N O S L E N THEIR ATTORNEYS E L A D A L w P a April 20, 1954 N. R. FRIEBERG ET AL CYCLE INITIATING MECHANISM FOR TEN KEY MACHINES Filed Feb. 10, 1955 FIG. IO 
10 Sheets-Sheet 6 INVENTORS NELSON R. FRIEBERG a PAUL A. DALE BY Q THEIR ATTORNEYS April 20, 1954 N. R. FRIEBERG ET AL 2,675,960 
CYCLE INITIATING MECHANISM FOR TEN KEY MACHINES Filed Feb. 10, 1953 FIG. I2 
1,0 Sheets-Sheet 7 IJUUUIJIJUIJ UUDUEIUDU IJDHDHHUH DUUUIJUBI] DIZI IZ\DEDDD INVENT S NELSON R. FRIE RG 8 PAUL A. DALE THEIR ATTORNEYS April 20, 1954 N. R. FRIEBERG ET AL CYCLE INITIATING MECHANISM FOR TEN KEY MACHINES Filed Feb. 10, 1953 FIG. I4 262 "l 245 Sheets-Sheet 8 k 202 206 20s 6| 209 I 204 0 I89 INVENTORS NELSON R. FRIEBERG 8 PAUL A. DALE swan? THEIR ATTORNEYS April 20, 1954 N. R. FRIEBERG ET AL CYCLE INITIATING MECHANISM FOR TEN KEY MACHINES Filed Feb. 10, 1953 10 Sheets-Sheet 9 INVENTORSI NELSON R. FRIEBERG a PAUL A. DALE THEIR ATTORNEYS A ril 20, 1954 N. R. FRIEBERG ETAL 2,675,960 
 CYCLE INITIATING MECHANISM FOR TEN KEY MACHINES Filed Feb. 10, l953 l0 Sheets-Sheet l0 INVENTORS NELSON R. FRIEBERG 6 PAUL A. DALE lav/m THEIR ATTORNEYS Patented Apr. 20, 1954 UNITED STATES PAT ENT OFFICE CYCLE INITIATING MECHANISM FOR TEN KEY MACHINES Nelson R. Frieberg and Paul A. Dale, Ithaca, N. Y., 
assignors to The National Gash Register Com pany, Dayton, Ohio, a corporation o'f'Maryland Application February 10,1953, Serial No. 336,102 
22 Claims. 
 1 This invention relates to a .calculating machine and more particularly pertains to a ten-key, key-set, power-operated machine in which each of the provided digit keys may be employed beyond its ordinary use in setting up amount data, 
drawin operations; a denominational series of differential racks alined with the totalizer pinions and engageable therewith in item-entering timing or item-withdrawing timing, said racks being individually movable for the purpose; a denominational series of stop bars each coupled to an associated one of the racks by a diverging lever, by which the racks may be moved, said stop bars being given an excursion of movement in each machine operation unless otherwise restrained as a group or individually; a set oi'digit keys for setting up amounts, there being a digit keyfor each of the significant denominational digits of the numerical system used, and a .zero key; a pin carriage having, arranged in denominational rows, digit-representing pins each of which. may be moved from an ineffective position to an effective control position, there being in each denominational row a pin for each significant digit of that denomination, said rows of pins being. sidespaced like the stop bars and the rows being equal in number thereto, the pin carriage normally befective the pin of corresponding value thereunder; means for initiating a machine operation; means for returning the pin carriage to normal after a machine operation; andtotalizer-engaging means operable to engage the racks and the totalizer for item-entering operations and itemwithdrawing operations. 
In known ten-key machines of this type, the 
step-by-step movement of the pin carriage is brought about by movement of a digit key inwardly and then outwardly, thus bringing the set pin into alinement with the proper stop bar. 
' In the machine of this invention, a machineoperation may be initiated byinward movement of a key beyond its-pin-setting.movement. This requires that the pin carriage'be-indexed-oncthe inward movement of the key, which will-then, unlessimeans is provided to prevent .it, interfere with the indexing movement of the pin carriage, a v the depressedkey stem will be in the .path of the pinin the next row. Moreover, as 
the machine cycle proceeds, the depressed key stem would be in the path of the pin carriage on its restoring movement. Such interference is avoided by the construction provided in this invention. A by-passpawl has been provided, in the bottom of each digit key stem, that will swing ineither direction to avoid the consequenceo'f in- .terferenceo'f the types mentioned. 
 In pin carriage operation, as a multiple-digit number is set up, the'highest-order digit is set up .first, and then .the lower-order digits are set up in descendin series. Thus, to set up the number 1576, first the 1 key is operated, then the 5 key, then the 7 key, and finally the 6 key, inthat order. On operation of the 1 key, the 1 pin of the first denominational row of pins is moved to .effective ,position, and the pin carriage is indexed toposition that pin in alinement with the'lowest denominational stop bar, 
the units-order in thedecimal system. On operation of the ""5 key, the-1,pin mentionedis, by 
reason of they second, pin carriage; indexing move- .ment, shifted to aline withlthe next higher order stop bar, the tens stop bar in'the decimal system. On thesame secondindexing of the pin carriage, the mentioned 5 pin is .alined with thezlowest .denominationalorder stop bar, and. so on. The 
..pin carriage mustbe in the new, position, to which .it ismovedbythe last-operated digit key, before the machine operation is initiated, in orderthat thecorrect number shall. be enteredinto the. machine. The ordinaril-y known indexing escape- .ments used inpin carriages onlybrin'g the'last pinset to 'e'fiective position into controlling aline- .ment with the lowest denominational'stop bar on the upward movement of the key. This will not do where a digit key is.used to initiate a machine operation, and, therefore, applicants device provides that thepin carriage indexing to bring the last pin set to efiective position to alinement with the lowest order stop bar occurs on the downward movement of the key. As such indexing will bring a new row of pins into alinement withthe key stems, the depressed key will be struck by the associated pin'of said newrow, 
but the by-pass pawlon the key stem operates to prevent damage to the pin and to prevent a misoperation of themachine. 
 The basic machine in which the invention is embodied is of the type disclosed in application for "United States Letter Patent, Serial No. 237,758, filed by Roland G. Fowler et al. on July 20, 1951, except that in thatrmachineithere is a full keyboard. for controlling entry of data. That machine has been. changed by this .invention to the ten-key type of machine by provision of a new keyboard and associated mechanism. 
 Therefore, it is an object of this invention to provide a ten-key calculating machine in which the digit keys may be used, beyond their ordinary function of setting up data in a pin carriage, to initiate a machine operation at the will of the operator. 
 It is a further object of this invention to provide novel key mechanism and pin carriage control for such a machine. 
 With these and incidental objects in view, the invention includes certain novel features of construction and combinations of parts, a preferred form or embodiment of which is hereinafter described with reference to the drawings which accompany and form a part of this specification. 
Of the drawings: 
Fig. 1 is a perspective view of the machine; 
, Fig. 2 is a diagrammatic representation of the front elevation of the pin carriage in relation to the stop bars; 
 Fig. 3 is a view of the right side of the machine with the case removed; 
 Fig. 4 is a view of part of the total-taking con trol mechanism; 
 Fig. 5 is a view of the right side mechanism inside the right side frame, showing particularly the totalizer-engaging mechanism and the totaltaking control mechanism; 
 Fig. 6 is a view of the stop bar anti-rebound mechanism; 
 Fig. '7 is a section through the machine to the right of the keys and the pin carriage, showing a denominational bank of the differential in relation thereto; 
 Fig. 8 is a detail showing a key in operated condition before the indexing movement of the pin carriage; 
 Fig. 9 is a view of the left side of the machine with the case removed; 
 Fig. 10 is a top plan view of the base of the machine, showing the manual and electrical machine trip linkage; 
 Fig. 11 is a detail of the machine trip latch mechanism as viewed from the right; 
 Fig. 12 is a top plan view of the pin carriage, showing the key stems and the pin carriage indexing mechanism, parts being broken away and others sectioned; 
 Fig. 13 is a view showing, in front elevation, the nine significant digit keys; 
 Fig. 14 is a detail showing a key in relation to the pin carriage and the key-restoring cam; 
Fig. 15 shows the motor bar and total key machine tripping mechanism; 
Fig. 16 is a detail of the pin carriage indexing mechanism and the digit-key-operated switch Brief description of the basic machine A brief description of the basic machine will be given to show how the novel keyboard mechanism for initiating a machine operation cooperates with the standard difierential mechanism, motor bars, and control keys. 
 The machine frame includes a base '52 (Fig. 10), a right side frame plate 3!, and a left side frame plate (see Figs. 3, 5, 7, and 9), joined together so as to act as a support for the various machine elements. Referring to Fig. 9, the machine is driven by a motor 33, energized upon the closing of motor switch 34 (Fig. ll) when trip latch 35 is rocked clockwise on its framesupported pivot 36, which allows trip lever 37, secured to shaft 38, to rock clockwise, the shaft 38 turning in response to the urge of spring 39 (see also Fig. 9) attached to three-armed lever 40, secured to shaft 38. As lever 31 (Fig. 11) rocks until an ear thereon rests on surface M of the trip latch 35, lever 42, secured to shaft 38, is rocked clockwise, closing the switch 34, thus starting the motor. Lever 42 is caught by a latch 43 as the machine starts, holding the motor switch closed until cam 44, mounted on the main drive shaft 50, strikes latch 43 at the close of a machine cycle. Shaft 50, in a machine operation, rocks counter-clockwise, from the position shown, and back, by means next to be described. The motor, through reduction gearing, turns a shaft to which is secured a notched wheel which cooperates with a pawl 45 (Fig. 9) pivoted on front crank plate 45, which in effective position couples the notched wheel to said front crank plate 46. When three-armed lever is in the home position while the machine is at rest, stud 41 thereon holds the pawl in inefiective position, where crank plate 46 is uncoupled from the motor. As the machine is tripped, the lever 40 rocks counter-clockwise, as seen in Fig. 9, allowing pawl 45 to move to effective position under the influence of spring 48, and, as the motor starts, crank plate 45 starts rotating counter-clockwise, in the direction of the arrow. As crank plate 45 has nearly completed its first turn, a cam arm 49 thereon strikes stud 51 on lever 49, rocking said lever clockwise to put stud 4'! in position to strike pawl 45, dis engaging crank plate 45 from the motor, and rocking shaft 38 to home position, allowing trip lever 31 (Fig. 11) to be relatohecl by trip latch 35. Trip latch 35 (Fig. 10) has inserted therein the left end of a lever 52, pivoted to the machine base at 53. Pivoted to lever 52 is a link 54, forward movement of which link trips the machine. The forward end of link 54 is pivoted at 55 to the lower extending arm 55 (see Fig. 3) of a multiple-armed lever 5'1, pivoted to the right side frame plate at Ma, which is rocked clockwise, from the position shown, by the control members to be described, to set the machine in operation. Spring 58 holds lever 5! in home position, where it is stopped by an ear 59 striking the right side frame plate 3i. Whenever the machine is tripped, it is against the action of spring 58, which constantly urges the latch 35 (Fig. 11) to latching position. Lever 52 (Fig. 10) also may be rocked by the action of solenoid 33, having a core 61 with a bifurcated end which embraces the left end of said lever 52. Energization of the solenoid, therefore, will trip the machine, and its energization may be brought about by the above-mentioned employment of the digit keys. 
 Returning to Fig. 9, the front crank plate is coupled to a rear crank plate 62 by a link 63. Crank plate 62 is loosely mounted on main drive shaft 50, journaled in the side frame plates 30 and 3|, but is coupled to a plate 63a, secured to that this coupling will yield on an overload, if a machine operation is impeded in any way, to 
prevent breakage of the parts. 
To the right end of the main drive shaft 50 (Fig. 3) is secured a plate 61, coupled by a link 68 to a plate 69, secured to a secondary drive shaft 10, extending between and journaled in the side frame plates and 3|. As shaft 50 and plate- 61 rock first counter-clockwise and then clockwise during a machine operation, so do plate 59 and shaft 73. 
 The differential mechanism is the same for each denominational order except for the difference in bends required in the diverging levers, to be described, which couple the totalizer to the 1 stop bars and to the printer bars. A typical denominational order of the differential mechanism will be described in connection with Fig. 7, to which attention is directed. A cross rod H, mounted in the side frame plates 39 and 3|, has rotatably mounted thereon at intervals, across the width of the machine, a series of diverging levers, like the three-armed diverging lever 12, having a rearwardly-extending arm i39a pivotally coupled to an associated printer bar 13 by not be explained in detail, as it forms no part of the novel mechanism and is fully described in the Fowler et al. application to which reference has been made. It is sufficient to note that the rotative positions of the diverging levers represent amounts and that they are controlled by the pin carriage in entry operations orby the totalizer pinions in total-taking operations to represent digital data. Each printer bar is moved to set the type representing the proper amount opposite a paper-holding platen, represented diagrammatically at 11, and the type so positioned is struck by an associated hammer 18=at mid- 7 cycle in a machine operation. An alining bail I9 is moved near mid-cycle by cam 84! to enter the alining racks 16 to hold the diverging levers in accurately-determined position. The totalizer consists of a main pinion SI for each denominational order, and attached to each is a number drum bearing the digits of the denominational order on its periphery The machine shown is a decimal machine, and the drums are viewed through a viewing aperture 83 (see Fig. l) in the case. The side-spacing or the totalizer pinions across the machine is represented in Fig. 1 by the spacing of the number drums. 'Associ I ated with each main totalizer pinion 8! is an idler pinion 82 (Fig. '7) in mesh therewith and having an extra set of teeth side-spaced from those in mesh with. the associated main pinion. In adding operations, the pinions engage the racks 6 pushed rearwardly by link 89, so that stud 81 will not pass around the arcuate surface 90. If lever 86 is up, stud 9| strikes a surface of lever 86 to pull it down if lever 86 is pulled forward by link 89. Link 89 is pulled forward on subtract operations under control of key 92 (Fig. 1), which has a formation that strikes a stud 93 (Fig. 3) on subtract control plate 94, rocking it clockwise, so that'a stud 95 on a rearwardly-extending arm thereof causes lever 96 to rock counter-clockwise, turning its supporting shaft 91 in the same direction. Shaft 91 extends across the machine and, as seen in Fig. 9, is turned clockwise as the subtract key is depressed, drawing link 89, so that stud 9| will pull down lever 86, if not already down, and rock cam E34 counter-clockwise to shift the totalizer to bring the idler pinions into mesh with the associated racks at the beginning of a machine cycle. If the next operation is an add operation, the cam 84 will shift the totalizer back to add position. All of this is described in detail in the Fowler et al. application before mentioned. The only connection which the subtract mechanism has with the novel mechanism is that it must be used in subtract operations to condition the machine for subtraction as well as to initiate a machine cycle, such machine cycle initiation not being effected during subtract operations by the digit keys. 
 Referring to Fig. 3, stud 93, when the subtract key is depressed, bears down on the upwardlyand rearwardly-extending arm 98 of a lever 99, pivoted at we to lever 51. Lever 99 has a yielding coupling to lever 51 through a spring I!) I, extending between an upwardly-extending arm of lever 99 and the forwardly-extending arm of lever 51. Consequently, lever 5 is rocked by the subtract key, thus initiating a machine operation as well as conditioning the totalizer-shifting cam mechanism to shift the totalizer to subtract position in the ensuing machine cycle. After a subtract operation, the lever 96 returns to normal position, and the cam 84 (Fig. 9) will be turned to add position at the beginning of the next machine operation. 
 Adding operations may be initiated by depression of motor bar 192 (Fig. 1), which has a key .stem formation which bears down on stud I03 (Fig. 3) on alever HM, pivoted at I09 to lever 51. 
. Lever I04 has a stud 35, which, by bearing down on lever 99, through spring lol, rocks lever 51 to initiate a cycle of machine operation. 
 On total-taking operations, the total key I96 (Figs. 1 and 15) is depressed to set the machine in operation for two cycles, in which a total is taken and printed, and on sub-total-taking operations the sub-total key ill! (Figs. 1 and 18) is depressed to initiate a two-cycle operation, in which a sub-total is taken and printed. Depression of-either key 1% or to! causes alink I08 7 (Figs. 3 and 15)- to move downwardly and forwardly, so that a total control plate I09 is rocked counter-clockwise around its pivot H0, stud Ill thereon bearing down on arm H2 of lever 99, setting the machine into operation. As a totaltaking operation commences, the link H3 is drawn rearwardly, and stud i It (see especially Fig. 3) rocks lever H5, fast on shaft i l6, counterclockwise. Secured to shaft H6 (Fig. '7) is a bail i!'!, which is thereby rocked on the first I cyclefof a totalor sub-total-takin operation to hold the stop bars from moving during the first cycle of a total-taking operation. Atypical stud 91 striking surface 88, provided lever 86 is stop bar H8, of which ther is onefor each decycle position. 
.close of the second cycle. 
\ nominational order, is shown in Fig. 7, and they I will be described later. 
TotaZizer-engaging mechanism The totalizer pinions are supported in a framework which is rockable away from the racks for disengaging the totalizer and toward the racks for engaging the totalizer. The framework arms, one of which, I23, is shown in Fig. 7, are secured in engagement with the racks, is first disengaged at the commencement of a machine operation as main drive shaft 50 rocks counter-clockwise, and then is re-engaged as shaft Ilreaches its mid- Shaft 58 actuates cam I26 through lever I28, hook lever I29, three-armed lever I36, pitman I3I, and hook lever I32. In total-taking operations, a bell crank lever I33 is rocked counter-c1ockwise to control the engagement of pitman I3I with hook lever I32 in a different manner in the second cycle, so that the totalizer remains in engagement during the first half of the second machine cycle, disengages therefrom at mid-cycle, and re-engages at the In sub-total operations, under control of key I01 (Fig. 18) members I34,'I35, I36, and I38 are moved to prevent dis- 4 en agement of the totalizer during the second cycle of a two-cycle total operation, thus resultin in a sub-total operation. All of this totaltaking, sub-total-taking, and item-entering totalizer-engaging mechanism is described in full in the aforementioned Fowler et a1. application. 
each diverging lever 12 is pivoted its associated stop bar I Ill. The front end of each stop bar is supported for slidin movement in an associated slot in a support comb I43. Each stop bar is urged forwardly by a spring I4I, extended between the stop bar and the comb, but such movement is prevented when the machine is at rest by a bail I42, extending'in front of all the upper extending arms I39 of the diverging levers. Bail I42 is supported by two arms, one of which, I43 (Fig. 5), is shown pinned to cross rod 1I. Pivoted to the bottom of arm I43 is a pitman I44, having a' roller I45 in engagement with a cam I46, pinned on drive shaft 50, on which the bifurcated rear end of pitman I44 rides. In the home position, shown, pitman I44, arm I43, and 
' bail I42 (Fig. 7) hold the stop bars from movement. rocks forwardly and downwardly, and the stop As a machine cycle starts, the bail I42 bars will move with it unless otherwise prevented individually by the pins in the pin carriage, to be described, or as a group by bail H1 in the first cycle of a total-taking or sub-total-taking operation, or as controlled by the totalizer Wheels in the second cycle of a total-taking or sub-totaltaking operation, all of such controlled movements being well known in the art to which reference has been made. 
' Referring to Fig. 6, as th stop bars move forward rapidly, they are likely to rebound slightly as they are halted by the pins, due to the resiliency of the parts. To prevent misoperation, each stop bar is provided on the under side with backwardly-pointed teeth I48. A ball I43, running across the machine under the stop bars, has ablade-I50 associated with each stop bar, 
 a pin is slightly elevated above plate IBI. 
 '8 which blades are normally held against the teeth by spring I5I, so that the teeth "click thereover on the forward movement of the stop bars, preventing backward movement thereof. This bail I49 is withdrawn at mid-cycle through the movement of front crank plate 46 as high point I52 comes against stud I53 on lever I54, pivoted to the left side frame at I55, moving the lever so as to draw link I56, pivoted thereto, rearwardly to rock bail support arm I51 counterclockwise to withdraw the blades I from the teeth I48. The sto bars, therefore, are permitted to return home durin the second half of a machine cycle. At the close of the machine cycle, the blades resume their effective position, as crank plate 45 then presents a low surface with respect to stud I53. 
The pin carriage For controlling the movement of the stop bars in item entries according to the value of the digits to be entered, there is provideda pin carriage having a top plate i6! (Figs. 2, '7, 12,14, 16, and 20), a bottom plate I62 (Figs. 2, '1, 14 and 16), a right side plate I63 (Fi s. 2, 3, and 5), a left side plate I64 (Figs. 2, 7, 9, 20, and 21), a front end plate I65 (Fi '7), and a rear end plate I66 (Figs. 2, 7, and 14), secured together in box-like construction, the top plate at the rear having an upward and rearward extension I61 (Figs. '7 and 12), on which are denomination indicator numbers 1 to 9 (as seen in Fig. 12), which show through an indicating aperture I68 (Fig. 1) to give the operator an indication of the pin carriage position as it is indexed denomination by denomination. 
 The top and bottom plates I6I and IE2 of the pin carriage have nine rows of alined slots, in which are mounted slidable pins, each having an ineffective up position and an effective down position, in which they control the stop bars with which they are alined in a machine operation. 
 Referring to Fig. 14, the pin I 69 is shown in its ineffective or up position, and the dotted line I10 shows its foot in the effective or down" position. Each pin has on its sides detent formations I1I, by which it is held resiliently in up or down position by cooperating springs, like spring I12, positioned between the top and bottom plates. In the down position, the top of The bottom of each pin is chamfered, as shown at I13, so that, upon movement of the pin carriage to the right to home position in the last half of a machine cycle, as will be explained, the keys in down position will be restored to up position' by striking restoring cam plate surface I14 as the pin carriage moves home in the direction of the" arrow. 
 Referring to Fig. 12, there are nine pins in each row. Taking the right-most row as an example, pin I15 controls the movement of the stop bar to represent zero. This pin I15, shown in Fig. "7, cooperates with stop formation I16 to limit the movement of diverging lever 12 to one step to position the zero type I11 to printing position. This one step of movement will not enter a digit in the totalizer on return of the stop bar by bail I42 to home position, as the rack 15 is coupled to arm I39 of diverging lever 12 by a pin-and slot connection which allows this one step of movement before any digit-entering movement of the rack occurs with respect to the totalizer. Referposition, cooperates with stop formation I19 to agemeeo enter-the digit -8, and pins I 80 to e l 86 (F-ig.' 12) cooperate with stop formation I'IS to enter, respectively, the digits *7, "-6, 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1'. The entry of the digit" 9'is not controlled by a pin but bythe 9 key rendering the escapement effective to index the pincarriage one'row' (in addition to initiatinga machine operation if desiredkwhich carries with itthe zero stop. member -l9l, to be described, uncovering one I of =the stop bars, which may -move, during the next -machine operation, its full distance; that is, until surface I81 (Fig. '7) strikes thecomb 'Thepin carriage is slidably mounted on shaft 488 "for movement crosswise of l the. stop bars, a roller 489, running in a raceway 190, secured between the side frame plates, supporting its front-*end. 
 'Referringto Fig. 2, there are shown the front ends of the stop-bars representing the-powers'of ten,'-10 to respectively; beginning at theright and working left, in their relation tothe rows of pins in "the: pin carriage after-two'steps of-movementfrom its right-hand position. It will1be seen that -the first rowof-pins is in -al-inement with the-10 'stop-bar and that the secon'drow of pins is-in alinement-with the'10 stop bar, the pin rowsbeing indicated with circled Arabic numerals. If noidigits had been set upthat-is to say,-with -the pincarriage in normal position-the first rowaof pins would be. in line with the arrow. 
 The -=ze1'o stopmember 'l9|, in the form of a bail, issupported on arms 92 and I93, pivoted to the left and'right side plates'lfi i and [63' of theapin' carriage (seealso Fig. 3). The zero stop member is to the left of the front row of pins and is wide enough: so that, when the pin carriage-is inhome position-that is, to theright-hand position-4t is in front of all-the stop bars. In such position, on operation of the machine, the stop surface 494 (see. Fig. "7) of all the stop-bars will strike'the bail after the one step of movement that brings the diverging levers 12 and the printer bars 13 toztheir zero:position. As digits are set into thezpin carriage by the keys, the pin carriage iszindexed to the left one stepat a time; so "that the stopibars are uncovered one at atime seriatim. 
 As .athez zero stop member:must'be 'rendered ineffective during' the second cycle of the two-cycle operations oftotaltakingor sub-total taking'in order that the stop barsaand: associated 'mechanism may zmove under control 'of the 'totalizer pinions, the said zero stop member is supported on aro'd I95 (Figs. -2 and'7) held in arms'lSS and H11 mounted on studsjournaled in the sideframe plates 30 and 3! the right stud, 1-98; being shown in-Fig. 5. Theilowerendof arm i91-ispivoted to link 2.00, Whichis drawnto the .rear onithe second half of the first cycle of two-cycleoperations, as explained in-the beforementionedFowler et al..1application. This. lifts .the zero. stop-member sufficiently to: render. itineffective during the second cycle of such two-cycle operations. Link 205 isrestored at the-conclusion of .such -,twocycle operations. 
 .A spring 26! (Fig.v 20) always urges the pin carriage toward the left but any leftwardmovement is controlled by an escapement mechanism including. pawls 202and-203 (Fig. -16) ,-which ,cooperate with the notchedfront edge of the upper plate I61 -.of the-pin carriage. The tnotching sis bestseen in=Fig.-l2. 
 Returning to Fig. '16, 1pawl 18.3 is ,pivote'd at 2 M 1 to abracketiOS, {secured rto.;left: :side :plate 530 and ,.pawl.:.-2 02 ;is .pivotedito 2 the=same2bracketzat 206. Pawl '2 [Kids provided with a stud- 201. Extending between pivot 2'06 and studZJi is a spring 209,=which urges paw12fi3 counter-clockwise so that'its nose enters that one of thenotches in plate l'6l that isin --alinement with it,-the right end of the nose engaging the right side of the notchduetmthe-pullof spring 20i (Fig 20). Pawl'zot-isprovided with a stud 219,-and-a spring 2 i l -extends between it-and-stud 20?, holding the nose on the right end'of" pawl 2ii2-in engagement with thetopsurface of that toothnexttoward the right from thenotch with which pawl2'03 is engaged. If pawl-203-isrocked slightly clockwise from theposition shown, its nose will escape-from the-notch-which it: engages, and'the next notch will be engagedby thenoseof pawl 262, which is very slightly to the right of the nose of pawl 203. The resulting movement of the pin carriage is sufficient to cause the pins of the first row to come" into -"alinement with the next stop "bar *to the left. This 'alinement is not destroyed-if pawl 03 is" allowe'd'to return to saidnext-notch, which-knocks pawl 2 02 out 'of'the' notch, because the nose 'of pawl'*232"isonly very slightly offset from the'noseof'pawlz'flt. The paw/1202- is rocked out of sai'd next notch by'forrnation'z i2 on pawl 21'13 strikingiormation '2i3'onpawl 202. Each time pawl" 203' is rocked'clockwise, the pin carriage ismoved one step to the left by its spring "2M. Each timepawl 2fi3-is rocked clockwise -beycnd the 'pointinecessary" to index "the pin carriage, its stud20rwillclose a normally open'micro-switch 293'to'initiate-a'cycle of-machine"operation, as Will"be"described. 'During thelast half of a machine operation, thepincarriage isreturned to home position"by"themain operating-means, as will'next be described. 
 Referring to Fig. '20, "secured to the 1 left side plate '30isa*'bracket 225,-supporting-a stud 226, on whichismounted a*c011ar -22! (see Fig. -21) having secured to its upper end a slotted lever 2'28, embracing'astud 229- secured to the left side of 'upperplatel'fil of the pin carriage. Collar 22'! has secured to its lower end a bent-over lever 23-0, pivoted-at-23 Etoahook member-23 I extending rearwardly. Hook-member 231 has on 1 its outer-end-ahook=232-andhasin itsmid-portion-a cam formatio-n Z33. 'Withth-e machine-atrest after *a *m-achine cycle, the parts are as shown in Figs. 20 and '21. *As thepin a carriage moves to thele'ft side of the mach-ine,- hook memberZtl is drawn forward. The cam formation 233, resting on stud 234, normallykeeps hook formation 23-2 from engaging stu'd 235on plate -85, but,-as hook member 2 3 I is drawn-forward,it is free to swing slightly counter-clockwise on its k pivot 236, so that,- as plate rocks clockwise on the first-half of a machine cycley-stud 235 gets behind hook formation 232, -and, on thelast half ofthe'cycle, member 23l isdrawn rearwardly,-returning the pincarriage to normal position, to the right. Hook member- 2M disengages stud 235 as cam'233 rides'up on-stud 234. 
Repeat mechanism Referring. to; Figs: 9 and .21, there is providedon theleft sidelplatecld Lofithe key bank. unit to. be described, ;-a :stud .142, on which is pivoted a Repeat 1ever..243, :having afinger-piece 1244, extendingsthrough .axslot in .the .top':plate.;245 .of the keysjbank unit; and;through. ,;slot. in the machine ;casing =.(see Fig, .1), ;a :bifurcated 'arearwardly-iextending Larm '2 4'6, .and a "two-notched lower surface on whichplays a stud241 ona-lever 2481pivoted toplate -24 l -sa-i'cl stud being held in contact with lever 243 by a spring 249. Bifurcated arm 246 embraces a stud 259 on the end of a bell crank lever 25! pivoted at 252 on a stud in the left side plate 30. Lever 251 has a stud 253 adapted to bear against the under side of hook member 23 I. Stud 253 will not interfere with the coupling of stud 235 and hook formation 232 when member 231 is drawn forwardly, but, if Repeat lever 243 is rocked clockwise to effective position, then stud 253 will be lifted to rock hook member 23I upwardly, so that the pin carriage will not be returned in the last half of a machine cycle. Under the latter circumstances, the pin carriage remains effective in the next machine cycle to repeat the entry set thereon unless such entry is changed by additional use of the digit keys. 
The key bank unit Referring to Figs. 3, 5, 7, and 9, the key bank unit includes the beforementioned top plate 245 and left side plate 241, and includes a right side plate 254 and an interior cross piece 255, joined into a box-like unit which is supported at its rear end on shaft I24 and at its front end on a stud 256 on the left side plate and a stud 251 on the right side plate. Secured to the under side of top plate 245 of the keyboard unit is a U-shaped pan 258 (Fig. '1'). 
 41,1! (2,1) ((3')) (4') (5,1) ((6,), (7), 8, 9, and 0 have the key tips arranged as shown in Fig. l, where they protrude through a dust cover plate 259. The upper portion of each of the key stems on which the key tips are mounted extends through an associated slot in plate 245 (Fig. '7) themid-portion of each key stem being bent so that a depending leg thereof passes through an associated one of alined holes in the pan 258, said alined holes extending in a row lengthwise of the key bank unit and forming the pin-setting station past which the pin carriage is indexed row by row. Each key also has a portion adapted to contact a universal bar 262 (see Fig. 12 also) common to all the digit keys. In Fig. 12 there are shown, in phantom, all of the digit key tips, and there are shown, in section and in full line, the various bends and conformations of the key stems as seen in top plan view. For instance, the 1 key 260 has a key stem 26!, the middle-portion of which is formed to pass first to the left, thence toward the back of the machine, thence to the right, where it crosses the universal bar 262, and finally downward to form a depending portion 263 (see Fig. 13) having pivoted thereon an interponent in the form of a. by-pass pawl 264, which is directly over the 1 position of the pin carriage setting station. Each key except the key, again taking the 1 key as an example, has a guide stem 265 directly under the key tip, around which a return spring is wound, which guide stem enters an associated guide slot in the pan 258. The 5 key 268 needs no separate guide stem, as it is directly over the 5 position of the pin carriagesetting station. The by-pass pawl of each key is under the pan 258, and each'pawl has a left shoulder 266 (referring to the 1 key in Fig. 13 as an example) and a right shoulder 261, these shoulders, when a key is in the "up position, resting against the bottom of the pan, preventing the pawl from swinging (see Fig. 14). When a key, taking the 5 key as an example, is depressed, as seen in Fig. 8, thebottom 269 of the pawl, moving downwardly, is on dead center and wil1 not yield until it makes contact with and depresses the associated 5 pin that is in alinement therewith. Its shoulders 21! and 212 move out of contact with the bottom of pan 258 so that the pawl may swing clockwise or counter-clockwise. Inasmuch as the pin carriage, as has been described, moves to the left as a key is depressed to bring the depressed pin into operative position, the next row of pins comes into pin-setting position. This movement is not interfered with by the depressed key, as its pawl will swing clockwise. Where, as with this machine, the machine operation always commences on the down stroke of a digit key, if so used, it is necessary that the pin carriage immediatelyindex before commencement of the operation, and this swinging pawl construction allows the next row of unset pins to come into the setting station without interference. As the pin carriage indexes after the key is depressed to the indexing stage, the associated pawl rides off the depressed pin, the distance from the end of the pawl to plate I61 allowing movement of the key to the second stage for initiating a machine operation. The swinging pawl allows the next pin to come to the pin-seting station without interference. As the depressed key is raised after the machine operation commences, the pawl is forced back to normal position as its shoulders strike the under side of pan 258. All of the digit keys except the 9 key are constructed with such a swinging pawl. The 9 key only indexes the pin carriage and needs no pin-setting pawl. The pawl of any key provided therewith swings the other way-that is to say, clockwiseif the key is held down until the end of a machine cycle and thus is struck by one or more pins in up position in the returning pin carriage. The 0 key has a stem 214, formed as seen in Fig. '1, to cooperate with the 0 pins in the pin carriage. The stem 214 has a swinging pawl 215 like the other digit keys. As seen in Fig. 
l, the "0 key tip is wider than the others, and, 
as seen in Fig. 12, the 0 key stem has two fingers 216 and 211, entering the key tip, and a bridge 218. which is under the top plate 245, said Initiation of machine operation by digit keys As before stated, energization of solenoid 69 (Fig. 10) will initiate a cycle of machine operation. This solenoid is shown diagrammatically in Fig. 16 in a circuit including electric supply terminal 29I, main switch 292, which may be placed in any convenient and accessible place on the machine case, as shown placed in Fig. 1, normally open micro-switch 293, a normally closed micro-switch 295 (see Fig. 10 also), and 
supply terminal 294. If the main switch 292 and the digit-key-operated switch 293 are closed, the solenoid 6|] thereupon will be energized and the machine tripped. As seen in Fig, '1, switch 293 is mounted on co'mb 14D. Switch 295 (Fig. 10) is mounted on a frame-supported member with its button 296 normally pushed in by lever 52, so that the switch is closed. As soon as the machine is tripped and lever 52 is rocked counter-clockwise, switch 295 opens, breaking the solenoid circuit so that the machine may relatch at the end of the machine cycle. If, on the relatching movement amsmo 1'3 ofsleverciz 3S'lSWifiC'hj29 frclosesntheswitclr 2.93; remainsxclosed :duertorcontinued depressionof a digit :;key, :the machine will be tripped again. Thatis-to say, aslongasa digitikey. is held down tosits; machine release. .position;.the :machine will continue-cyclic. voperation. ;If:the "Repeat" lever isdn irepe'at position-the; dataj'set. u lin the; Pin carriage will bei-repeatedlyuentered. ilf-the f-Repeat ,"lever 1 is zin;inefiectivea'position, the second cycle .and following cycles willbe idle. If itis-desired: vtoroperatenthe ;machine by theqadd motor bar L02, 'ithe switch :'292 rmay be opened. @It should .zbe: noted, with; ref erenceto Fig. 1 6, that pawl 203 can be moved to spin carriageindexing position: beforelthef stud :2 01 .makes contact with a-ndcoperates SWitOh. 293. .Itshould-be notedalso thatean'extra springz29'l isprovidedon thGgSWiiiOh to ':warn ithe operator that 1 the SWitCh-rClOSiDE point aofikey :depression: haswzbeen reached,so,;if theimachine is. not toybe trippe'diby, such key, such pointqnay not be passed. Even with, main switch 292: closeld thev fulhamount may be set uponthe key-board'and the :machine; set in operation by add:.=motor' bar-1 02. In case of subtraction, the key-e92 is .always used ,to initiate s theg machine cycle. 
"Correction key vA= correction keya30fl (Figs. land '7) has been provided; witha .stem'3fl I with a slotted bent-over portion '302 (see'-also-Fig..1 2) mounted .on slide $t11ds.3ll3 tandflllfl. Key; 30G normally is resilientlyheld in aleftemost position by a spring305 extendingrbetween stud 303: and an ear 306 depending fromthe slide. ,Y'Another ear 301, extending downwardly from bent-over portion 302 is in line withsurface3ll8 ofztop;plate |6l0f the pin carria-ge. -Onmovement of the correction-keysfln to the; right, the :pin carriage,-wherever-it may be, is-lreturned'toahome position, restoring any pins thatmay have been set up. On release of the correctiorr,-key,:-a newrnumbenmaysbe setup on the piircarriage. 
Rsumeiof machine operation tThe operator first decides whether he'wishes to have machine cycle, initiation in addgentries made under. control ofcthe digit-keys or not. Ifthellattersswitch-2 fl2 (Rig. 1) ismoved'to oflifi position; 
that is-to-say, the-main solenoid switch-is opened. 
tor the on -,-position. The numbers to be entered is then set up! ontthe -keys, digit bydigit, beginning with: the highest digit,.-as is usual in the operation of ten-keyadding machines,. the-operator being careful ;not toq depress any but :the last digit key to be used to the pointwhere-the solenoid'switch 293 ,is closed. lAs-the last'digit key visldepressed, it is given full inward movement,...which. initiates.v a machine. cycle in which the setup amount isientered additively. ,If .the amount isotope entered.subtractively, the Sub, 
tractskey isms msed tosinitiatesthetmachineseperation. :Repeatcoperaticnsczare providedifor by moving j-Repeat, lever .243: to effective position before. initiation bf a machine ecycie. ,1 Holdin down. aidigitckey cause. repeatedicyclingeof the machine, justlzas =:wi1l.:ho1ding xdownneither add-motor; bar.. 102 ior subtract key 92 1: metal?takingmperationslzalvmys are; initiatedzby operatingikey l-llfijsandzsub -.totaltaking :bpera- V tionss;arecalwa-ys"yinitiatedibyioperating key L07. 
 While .the:;form"i;of mechanism r.herein.::shown and describedgis;admirablyuadapted,tmfulfilhthe objects :primarily Qsjtated, Lita-is to be ;;understood that; it: is not; intended to; confine ,Lthei-nvention to therone: f Orin, oniembodimentcherein .;disclose.d. 
for: it is :susceptible of embodiment in various othernforms. 
*Whatiis claimeduis: 
tlqln 111a; calculating machine, ;a .-;set evof 2 digitrepresentinge keys; mounted in; theimachinerlwith stems arranged in aa row, there rbeing ta wkey for ea'chidig-iti of ther-numericaknotation omwhich the machine is based, each keyfl-rhavingrpivoted towits stem an interponent \by epass :pawl, and 
eechrkeyabeing: movable ,to 11a; first stage where itrcontrols the. entiyzofvdata, and movablev therebeyond .to :a machineecyclednitiatingw stage; .=,.:a pin carriage ;having rows of ;-data-. entering :pi-ns movablelfrom' anzineffective position; totan :efiective; position imeans :operable; to index ilthe 1pm carriage from ,t a ;Vho1me,=-:--position by; steps vwhereby the rows of pins, are brought successivelysopposite the :interponents son .;the :key; stems, .the movement. of; a. ,keyto. the; first stagegcausingithe 5 setting-gofathe pin of'iassociated value in;a1inement therewith to the effective position andadi i n y .causing the indexing of the pin carriagesastep to-orbiting the;;next.: row -10f pins in alinement with the g-key stems,- ,the c-interponent pawl of a depressed key pivoting out of thevway when struck zbyitheucoirespondingrpin.;of said next: rowzas;the. .carriage:, is. indexed; ;a;.main .operatingimeans 1- for 1: giving 1 the, machine ,a cycle of. operation when such. is ;,initiated; a;cyc1e;initia in rmeans;;:andl-means ;.operatedby; alkeyswhen moved, to -the;cycle+initiating stage. topperatethe eyelet-initiating. lmeansrto pause; a;machine;,cycle. ,2; .Theimachine. ot-claim 1 .in ywhichsthereare provided: a;--totalizer; a; difierential means: which is set by the pins efiective positionduringa machineicycle and totalizerengaging meanszeffectiveduring atmachine cycle to enter the data set-up on thegdiiferential into, the totalizer. 
, 3. :The, machineof claim 2 in-which the amount controls are; provided. to .be operated before the; 
initiation ofya, machine ,cycleto changethe entry of :datato; a; subtractentry. 
, 5..Themaehine1of1 claim 4 inwhichthe subtract controls when operatedm-result in the initiation of gal-machine cycle. 
 -.;6. ,Themachinefof; claim 1 in .whicha; motor; bar is ,provided; said ymotor :bar when operated: causns; the initiationbna machine cycle. 
 ,liflihe-rmachine of ,1 claim .1- in :which :means, is providedgfonreturningthe pin carriageto home position ;at :the ;comple t;ion of: an 1 entry, the .bypasspawllof ar-depressed key allowing such return. 
, 8. In;a-:,ca1culating, machine having. plurality of denominational rows digit-representing pins individually ,7 movable .from i an ineffective position. to an effective position-where they control the entry of, amounts .into the machine during an operation thereof, a set of keys equal in number to the digits in a single denominational order, said keys having stems with pivoted pawls by which said pins may be moved to effective position, said keys being individually operable inwardly to a first stage in which the pawls on the key stems move the pins in alinement therewith to effective position, and said keys being individually movable farther inwardly to a cycleinitiating stage; an indexing means, operation of which moves the keys and the rows of pins relatively row by row, said indexing means being' operated by operation of a key inwardly at least to the first stage; power means operable when initiated to drive the machine through a cycle of operation; cycle-initiating means operable to initiate a machine cycle; and starting means operated by inward movement of a key to the cycle-initiating stage to operate the cycleinitiating means, the pawls on the key stems allowing movement of the pin carriage without interference between a depressed key and pins in ineffective position. 
 9. The device of claim 8 in which the pins are held in a carriage movable from a home position by operation of the indexing means, said carriage and pins being returned to home position during the latter part of a machine cycle, said pawls be ing pivoted to allow such homeward movement of the carriage without interference between a key indepressed position and a pin in ineffective position. 
 10. The device of claim 9 in which an auxiliary means is provided to initiate a machine cycle in the event the digit keys are not used for that purpose. 
 11. The device of claim 8 in which an auxiliary means is provided to initiate a machine cycle in the event the digit keys are not used for that urpose. 
 12. The device of claim 8 in which the machine is provided with a totalizer, a differential means for entering data into the totalizer during a machine cycle under control of the pins which have been set to effective position, a totalizer-engaging means normally controlling entries of data into the totalizers to be additive, and subtract means for controlling the totalizer-engaging means so that entries will be made into the totali'zer negatively. 
 13. The device of claim 12 in which the subtract means includes a subtract control key, operation of which, in addition to causing an entry to be made subtractively, causes the initiation of a machine cycle. 
14. The device of claim 8 in which the starting means includes a machine trip means; a solenoid energizable for operating the trip means; and a normally open electric circuit for the solenoid which is closed by operation of a key to the cycle-initiating stage to energize the solenoid and thus initiate a machine cycle. i 
 15. The device of claim 14 in which the circuit includes a main switch which may be opened to disable the solenoid-operated starting means. and in which there is provided a motor bar, operation of which will initiate a machine operation. 
16. In a calculating machine having a plural-' ity of denominational rows of digit-representing pins individually movable from an ineffective position to an effective position where they control the entry of amounts into the machine dur ing an operation thereof, a set of keys equal in number to the digits in a single denominational order, said keys being individually operable inwardly to a first stage in which they move pins in alinement therewith to effective position, and movable farther to a machine-cycle-initiating stage; an indexing means, operation of which moves the keys and rows of pins relatively a row at a time, said indexing means being operated by inward operation of a key at least to the first stage; power means which, when a cycle of machine operation is initiated, drives the machine through a cycle of operation; cycle-initiating means operable to initiate a machine cycle; and means operated by operation of akey to the machine-cycle-initiating stage to operate the cycle-initiating means. 
 17. In a calculating machine, the combination of spaced numerical denominational orders of differentially-settable means; a power means for giving the differentially-settable means excursions of movement in cycles; a pin carriage having denominational order rows of pins settable individually from an ineffective position to an effective position where they may control the excursion of one or more of the differentially-settable means; indexing means operable to move the pin carriage from a home position past a setting station and past the differentailly-sete table means, order by order; a set of keys equal in number to the number of digits in a, denominational order, said keys, each having a pin-setting station formation at the pin-setting station and being movable inwardly individually toward. the pin carriage from an ineffective position to an effective position in which the numericallyassociated pin then at the setting station is set :1 to effective position, and each of said keys beingdigit-representing pins, which pins may bemoved individually from an ineffective position to an effective position and vice versa, and mechanism operable to index the carriage from a, home position pin row by pin row, past a pin-setting station, the combination therewith of one or more keys having stems alined along said pin-setting station, the pins of a row at pin-setting stations being alined with the stems of the associated keys, said keys being movable toward said pin carriage, 
a first stage of movement setting to effective posie tion the pin in alinement therewith and operating the indexing mechanism to move the carriage by a row, the stem of each key having a pin-setting member thereon unyielding in a pin-setting movement, but yielding to pin carriage movement whereby the pin carriage may be indexedwhile the key is retained in pin-setting position, 
without interfering with pins in the next row asthey come to the pin-setting station. 
 19. The device of claim 18 in which the pinsetting member of a key is a pivoted member which may be swung in the direction of pin car-' riage movement. 
 20. The device of claim 18 in which the pin-f setting member of a key is a pivoted member which may swing in the direction of pin-carriage-' indexing movement or in the opposite direction. The device of claim 18 in which means is provided to return the pin carriage to home position, and in which the pin-setting member is a pivoted member which may swing in the direction of pin-carriage-indexing movement and also in the direction of pin-carriage-homing movement. 
 22. The device of claim 18 in which the key stems project through guide slots in a guide member and in which the pin-setting members are pivoted members which have shoulders which bear against the under side of the guide member when the key is in unoperated position, holding the pivoted members in aiinement with the associated keys and. unyielding to pivotal forces. and in which the movement of a key to pin-setting and pin-carriage-indexing position causes the shoulders of the associated pivoted members to move away from the guide plate so that the pivoted member may swing in the direction of pin carriage movement and vice versa. 
No references cited.