Recorder 
US-2612428-A
Veeder Root Inc
1952-09-30
https://patents.google.com/patent/US2612428A/en
Sept 30, 1952 H. B. vRooM 2,612,428 
RECORDER File@ Jan. 7, 195o 5 sheets-sheet 3 f3-g 5 /-TJU 95 A 94 4,5 @o 63 6,5 @o gT l j] 9b 97 4Z l lI 93 a l l /905' 20 s s T g o o o 0- 92 :l l-l-l 9] Z 2 =L c L 63 70 61 82 @er 3mm HAROLD 5 V120 OM Sept- 30, 1952 H. B. VROOM K 2,612,428 
RECORDER Filed Jan. 7, 1950 K 5 Sheets-Sheet 4 gmc/wm HAROLD 3. I/RooM Sept. 30, 1952 H. B. vRooM RECORDER 5 Sheets-Sheet 5 Filed Jan. 7, 1950 V IAM 3mm HAROLD E. VROOM Patented Sept. 30, 1.952 
RECORDER corporation'of'Connectcut. Y .Appumion.-.ranuaty 7, 195o, serial No. 137,465 
" reclaim; (c1. .34e-.14.) 
 Sme-present.. invention. relateeto. recordingl vapparatus and, .more .partcnlarl.y,. to-.a .device for ettaciimentlto a.register -`It-nechatnisrri. for operationin unison-therewith -and arranged to permit the,..printi`ngof a Writtenrecordl orr'eceiptv ofiv .the operationi.ofy the.register.` l Theldevicefhas parlticular .utility ifn. .connectionvwith fgasoline .y olis-y pensingzyapparetnsto permit the printing -tof a saleslslpf fin a.; simpl 'end` v easy manner which. showstlie. readings inthe register and sucliother information as may Joe .'desired- .inv connection cordefmeehaniismwhich!Cariche attached@ e conventional registerV -for `operationin unieon therewith andwhichwill ,duplicatethe readings of'fheli reeorq. obetakenot tlesefrealirigsr;` I Included inlthis object gis. ,the aim ofV providingfan im- D'roved.- fopeietiee mechanism frthe; printing: wheelsand an improved` interconnectionbetween l it fand .f the f register thereby caus,ingfimproveclf.op` eration-.ofthe regrstel' 5nd,.,1'eCQP-de1kl? 11115011 duringrboth regivstering..tuiclresetting.A 
. trtlierfairnfistmprcvide in thedevicere.-v 
ferreciit@ enfmnroveclfemminemechanism-"fer whine animpresjsonfthe printiriewheels which isV simpfleffand .easy to operateandwhich will .int surean-aecnrateandE l'JgiloleiprintingI of the` readiilen -.the;.rce1ter...t0eeiher vwith such :other information, es .may be .fdesired,. `-In .this .conneet-ion, it is de sirevdgto; provide a i p1jix iting.4 mech-l an'ism-Y Whichvvill permit the carrying :out of Credit traneeilpnsfusne-the .ffchergarplaw .Sys- 
temmuch n iffaeiliiinA department-emmene. the; 
like wherein approvedgcreqit ,customers are .spro vided `with- ,small identifying, .metal plates containing. .their `ritmes, addresses and charge ae coun-t., umiyers, etc. fin embossed-.letters and by means o v'wvliici'ji-fthis:information-iman be printed. cna 'salesgslpfnv .A i. .the-r zalm.; of the invention. is to provide a-` recording device f Lof the character vreferred to in ,vviiiclrrA the printing pvhee1sjmayj-jhe aligned. preliminarily-v tc printing without listinisaingy4 the .accuracy tot the amounts printed with respect :to 
 '.Another aiznef. eti-.invention .is to provide a reerdrp xthis ypeffwhich 'may be elevated mapping@ receipt. 1'. eeles slip independently-oitheioperation. of fthel :.resettingmechanism fs'o 'as notgto v"disturb thejtreadings von rthe visiblerregistergtofpermi't =comparison=between .theregister gister .on printingv Wheelsf to permit a. 
and th Drintedirecord-:andatomermitireprmtmg iflelesrcdf.y u 
Anotheriaimi .ofpthefnvention istogfprovide gaa device; of'this'.- clfiaracterwhich;V isi economica-liano. compactin sizef,eindtxshape-zsofthat it can'-jbeat.- tached to ai register. .in -a fminimum:off.-reriuired y -spacea-nd Will notfpresent antunsightlyzxcumben-f some1orinconvenientaddition y00 the I'Qgelligz mechanism.. It is-also contemplatedfithat. the;A device-vof theipresentainventicn may-:bemounted atfagplace'spaced fromzthe registeringgmechanism vif thisiis: :found .to befdes-irablef. :from af conf ve'nienceistendpointy asin the case:ofjgzasoiinlmdi*sir4 pensinggapparatusWhere:it isfgenerally merecen venient. to mount'Y the .recorder om .thezexteciw,of'.n 
thepump housing.; i 
 A :further-aim of 1 the invention isvto prov-idee a recording y device ;of the i'charfatcter; clescribrd:y which is foolproof v4.inroperation:and---Whicirrriitisl a :minimum-g of :moving 1 parts-:ande isfofv grugeedf and simple construction such'th'a.'t-\it'rneyfbeSiilm' ated over Vvlong.;Lrcrods;of time-without. failure and without. requiringv frequent; .freplacementron repair. -ieven when .-subjected fto'f hard usage.':sindY l subjectedLtountavorablefatmospheric condtionsaa @ther objects fwill ceA in.petrt:oiovoueV andi-ini part pointedoutimore in Adetaily hereinafter. 
 .The.-inventioniaccordinglyiconsistsiingthecfea; tures A{pf2-.construction fcombinaticn offcel'ements, 1 ari-df. Y. arrangement of .parte which will. bei @exam-'f p1ifed-..infV the f construction hereafter #set forth andY -the scope tof. :the application of whichffwigll he'indicatedin'the.appended claims. 'Inrthef.dravvlfigs--m4 v ,Figure f 1 riefen end view .for` apreferredf: embodi'f; ment" oilthe:.presentxlinnention attached twthe housingaiofxagrgazsoline? .dispensing fpump,:th.e hone.- 
ingfbeing shownmerely .di-atgre'rnn'taticall-y'fandinl fragmentary' 'fo-rm; t 
line pump: mechanism withfthe housing -`-fsliown inf'fragm'entary form eind lzneingcutaWetytofreve'al the connections :betweenj thel Vclevice L and; a reg.; v ister andwth'tlieregisteralsopartially eilt.entity.4 
to show' certain of the operating connections; 
 Fig. 3 is anend View of aneadapter. unit.Wl'ificl` .is utlizedin connecting thedevceofthepresent inventiontothe particular registerrin Figc-.lathe cover .plate .of theY unitJ being removed `to .sliow4 the interior thereof; 
 Fig, `4 is an .end viewof the device'ofigtirantes.,-vv` entinvention with the end plateportion removed -l to'shoW the interior-ofthe device; f 
Fig. 11 is an enlarged cross sectional View V l taken along the line II-II of Fig. 8; and 
 Fig. 12 is an enlarged diagrammatic view of the driving and resetting mechanism for the printing wheels. 
vice A of the present invention is shown in Figs. l and 2 as attached to the exterior of the housing Iofa gasoline dispensing mechanism B. Interiorly of the housing IIJ is mounted a well known type of registering mechanism C mounted in connection with ay drive varying mechanism or -variator D which connects the register with the meter (not shown)fin such a way that the register can be made to register not only the amount of the gasoline dispensed but also the cost of the same in dollars and cents. 
 In the register C illustrated in Fig. 2 of the drawings, the register is Aprovided with a plurality of windows I to reveal the indicia of numberwheels I2 which appear in registry with the windows In this illustration, the number wheels I2 register the cost of the gasoline dispensed. The price per` gallon at which the gasoline is being sold and at which the variator D is set is indicated by number wheels I3 which appear atwindows I4. The amount of gasoline dispensed is registered by number wheels I5 appearing at windows I6; Y 
 As is customary in devices of the type of the registering mechanism C, there is provided a reset shaft I1 which is adapted to be turned through one rcomplete revolution of 360 in order toreturn the number wheels I 3 and I2 to zero after the completion of a dispensing operation and before the initiation of a subsequent operation. The register is also provided with two shafts denoted as I8 and I9 which are driven in unison with the first wheels of the cost indicat-v ing wheels I2 and gallonage indicating wheels I5 respectively. In most installations, the shafts I8 and I9 are utilized to operate totalizer wheels (not shown) which are not resettable with the register and are utilized to register the total output and receipts of the dispensing apparatus. The three shafts referred to (reset shaft I'I and totalizer shafts I8 and I9) are the only portions of the register operatively connected with the recording device of the present invention. 
 The particular design and construction of the register C, forms no part of the present invention. For details of construction of such a register, reference may be had, for example, to the patent to Slye, No. 2,264,557 issued December 2, 1941. 
i The recording device of the present invention in the embodiment shown in the drawings is provided with a housing consisting of a base por-l tion for containing the printing wheels and operating mechanism therefor and a cap portion 2|, the latter being stream-lined and adapted to be fastened to the base portion 23 in any con vement mannensuch as yby the screws 22. The 
housing of the recorder may be bolted to the housing IIl ofthe gas dispensing apparatus in any suitable manner such as by the use of bolts 23. On the exterior of the recorder A are a pair of handles or cranks 24 and 25, the former being provided to reset the register and printing mechanism to zero as described more particularly hereinafter, andthe latter` craiikf 25` being provided to carry out a printingoperation also as more particularly described hereinafter. 
Connections to register In order to permit the attachment of the par- Y ticular embodiment of the device of the present invention to a register of the type shown in the drawings, there is provided an adapter unit 30 s .which is best shown in Figs. 2 and 3 of the draw- Referring to the drawings, the recording deings. This adapter unit 3E is mounted in a housing 3| which is adapted to be bolted to the side of the register C. Mounted on the exterior of the housing 3| lon the side facing the register are a pair of meshing-gears 32 and 33;l The gear 33 is arranged to mesh with a gear 34 which is fixedto the reset shaft Il of theregister previously referred to., The gear 32 is fixed to `a short shaft 29 extending through the'housing" 3| and journaled therein and having on'itsopposide end a slotted coupling 35 forreceivinga shaft 3B, to be described more particularly 4here inafter. Accordingly, turning` movementloftlie shaft 36 may be utilized to turn the resetv shaft Il through gears 32 and 34 and idler gear533'. 
 Totalizer shaft I9 which is rotatedatwa :rate to permit the registration of 'the quantityof fluid dispensed is provided With a slotted cou? pling 4| for receiving a short shaft 31 j'ournaled in the housingi3| and cn which is mounted a gear 38. This gear 38 operates gear 39 through idler gears 43 and 44, and coaxial gears 45 and 4B, the latter two gears beingxd to each other for rotation in unison. Gear 39 is xed to a shaft- 43 which extends outwardly from the housing 3| and is provided with a 'slotted coupling (not shown) similar to slottedv coupling "35 for `re' ceiving a shaft 42 "adapted Vto extend to the recorder for driving the gallonage yprinting wheels, as more particularly described hereinafter. The gear ratios employed are such that shaft 42 is rotated at tengtimes the speed of totalizer shaft, 
I9, thisv for the reason" that in most registers. 
the register wheels will be rotated onebount for' each one-tenth turn of totalizer shaft I9 wheree' as, in the recorder of the present invention, as more particularly explained hereinafter, aV complete turn of shaft 42 Ais, required to advance the printing wheels G one count; f 
The cost retainer shaft la is simiiany pmt-f' vided with a slotted coupling '50 forv attachment of a shaft 5I extending intothe rhousing 3| on' which is mounted agear 52.* V'Gearj 5'2- 'meshesg with a gear 53 fixed to gear 54, theflatter being in mesh with a gear55 fixed to a 'shaft 56 extending outwardly of the housing 3| and being provided with a slotted 'coupling 51 to receive a shaft 58 for driving the cost printing wheels? of the recording device asy more particularly described hereinafter. Here again, the gearratiosy employed are such that the shaft 58is rotated ten times for each rotation ofthe itotalizer shaft I8. 
 As previously mentioned, reset shaft of the register is adapted to lbe rotated by theshaft 36 through the gear train-'composedof gears 32,233' and 34. Gear 34 also meshes with' an lidlergear' 14 which in turn meshes with -a gear l5 fixed to a shaft 16 extending through Vthe housing 3|- message with :the resetrshafft :1;'1 whentthe ,wegisterzziswbee ingifresettoffzerm: s 
 obersten efnmng'-wire'ezsf "inerder' te'fpfermitf-the pnnnnglof 'inertie ede-f respondingfto@ thesiatting of fthecost" v x'rheelsVJ lf2 and'` amount wheelsi l5" of"I the lregister, there are provided two sets 'or prim-,ingv wheels,-v E and-fer, 
wheels-fst are-@f rmeuewitn raised-indient their'peripliery in his casefnumeral fromffo tffjsg" wmenean 'eiitiiizedgteepiint thesef nume' printing Wheels'L L'and' G"are'iniountedj'for'freeL 2U.y "The-'printing AvWheelsz offset fG, A irl-this' enrbodirnent, correspondto the volume or gallons wheen -lseftne1register while the-set er wheels E correspond y'to the register -costwheels' i2. 
Each of the printing wheels 60 is similar 2in* construction and' thereforethe" description will be; limited to butone `of them; Eachl Wheel 60 has-xed thereto fa notched disk 63 provided,v with Peripheral 'notchesl64 corresponding in; 
number rto the yindicia onthe Wheel, and-one-of these notches, denoted atv 64'?, isjmadesomewhat deep'erthan that o f-,the remaining notches.` The notches Aof vthe diskg are adaptedto be engagedby 4spring-pressedv flngers of varying; 
inclination pivotally mounted onja U-shaped yoke 66 inthe case of theugallonage printing wheels G; end eisimueny-eke l,61 inthe cese er; thercost printing wheelsl E. These yokes,66 anc i;. 61 are freely mounted on the vshaft 6l previously referred .to as `supporting the printing wheels E and G. When Vthe yokest and v61 are .oseiueted en theehaftgel., the; engere 65,111.' 
combination vwith the vnotches 64 and ydeep notches B4 `of `the disks 6,3, act to, advance the printing Wheelsof rlowest orderin a stepwise fashion and also to transfer the count from Wheelsfsf. lower' @nder @wheels ofy higher order- As will be. apparent, when the `yokesA 66 `and 61 arernoved in a clockwise direction as -viewed in Fig.;-9 of` the drawings, the finger` 65, having the greatest inclination vtoward the printing wheeldisks and `cooperating with `the printing Wheel L lowest 'Ordsrrwill rstfadvancethermen@ Wheel f lowestorder one countby engagement of the finger G5 witha notch 64 of 'they disk 63 associated with thefirst wheel 6th This g single stepwise movement of the wheel of lowestorder is repeated for each `oscillation of the'yoke until theA deep notch 64,( .is engaged, y this .being when the printing wheel is turned-from "9 to "0.v The deeplnotch 64' `permits the fingers -65 to'i'nove insufficiently toA permit the secondfinposition; the'pivoting movement of the yo'kein-y The oscillations offthefyeyokes 66 and 61 are carried out-in ha. similanmanner. As best shown in"Eig'. 9'ofthedi awin gs, .thegyofkef yfis proj vided .witha slo'tin which Vrfiies'fapin 6 6 ,ear-' riediby .a kdisk 10j kwhich isiiixeditoga'gear 1,1 rotatably supported 'cna 'shaft "I'Zfiournaied the adjacent uprightz. The-'gesell nieses Withfalgearl whichlisviixedltofalsh' 2," 'is shaff'being Aconnected "throughfa 'one r, ball clutchv 83 to a. rshaft 184,. `v 
vided 'with 'afcoupling 8 5 for" receivingfthe 5 8 previously referred to "as extending ifroni t register: and `tern-g 'driven et a tien tete-11er by the vcost totalizer' shaft 'l 8 'tgliere'ofl A c'c ingly, the ,yoke 61 "is 'sc'illated '.thrugh'o'rie'c 1nv4`r piete'eyeie for eeen ene-'tentnvtufn .er retainer, 
gagementf with the ,notched disks '63 send urged" into"enga`gement therewith by spring 8 1' 'to "prevent "reverse turningo'f' the printing' 'vvh'e'els'ly Similarly, 'theyoke' is {driventby enga e' ment with aipin Sil'carried by disk 9! secir to 'gear' 9 2 which is rotatably' mounted onia-stud" 19 positioned in the adjacent uprightf62. `Gear' 92l meshes with a gear 93 which is 'fxedjtoone" end of a shaft 94. 
95` to shaft e'having a ooi'pling 9,1. foryc'dne-. tion to the shaft 42 extending'from'the.register .a ft' Theorie-way drive ball clutches 83 .andi 65T similar in construction and "are 'showrifir 'deta'i'l in Figjll of thejdraw'ings; yThese'clutches'com# as previously rdescribed 'and "being driven ten toons ratio bythegal1onage'totalize` Hijof'thefregister. 
prise a'huhportion |00 fixedto thedriven shaft', 
in thieease shafts er and sq'respeetiveiy; These" hub portions I'Ei are provided.- with' grooves lllfll" of varying depth' in which are received'ballsfill'Z V 40 s of thel grooves il by springs I 03. Encii'clin the hubportions |00 are she'lis" l64"'which:aref 
 fixed tothe drivingl shafts, in thisV case', .shaftsfA 96v and 84 respectively. `It thuswill beseen'that'.' when the shafts 84 and 96 areturned in a drive' shafts 94 and S2 respective1y, which`, "in Jturn; 
will'actuate theyokes E6a'nd 61 to advancethe-v printing wheelsE and G. Hou/ever', by realsfn'if4 50. ofthe'fball clutches'SS and 95, the yokes 66 and, 
shafts 84 and 96. 
. For convenience hereink in describingthe operain Fig. 9 will be referred to as the fullynstr'a'o'te'dl a clockwise direction'as viewed in this same' iig-7` ure which actsto advance the` Wheels one count .60 wiilfbereferredtoas advancement of the yoke; 
*the farthest pivotedr position away from that shown 'Will'be referred toas the" ffully advanced position; and return pivoting movementof the-y yoke to the full'retracted position which takes gage in a subsequent notchk 64 will be lreferred t as retraction of theyoke. v 
As' explained more particularly hereinafter,l it 
 yis desired, in order to avoid error rin correlation. 
between the printing wheels and register wheelsy when the receipt or record-is printed, toretract the; yokes during thev iirstfh'alfl count"o f"the"f register wheels andv to advance them' vduring 'the7 y1ast'ha1fof thecount;y Y 
which are urged' toward the sh:alloWerf'porton' V ing or registeringv direction, theywi'll rotate 'the'. 
A6'! may be advanced by rotating the ishaft'siiv and 64 independentlyof and'without rotatin'gthe tion of the yokes 66 andv 6'1,v the position shown" place without imparting any motion to the number Vwheel and permitsthengers 65' to en- Resetting sv previously mentioned, the printing wheels U are freely rotatable on the shaft 6|. Each of the printing wheels 60, however, carries a pivoted pawlv|| biased toward the shaft by a spring |09, as best shown in Fig. 9 of the drawings, which Will permit the wheel 60 to be turned in a registering direction independently of the shaft 6| but which will be engaged by a longitudinaly groove in the shaft 6| if the shaft 6| is ro-k tated. Accordingly, the printing wheels E and G can be reset to zero by turning the shaft 6| through'one complete revolution in the direction of rotation of the printing wheels. 
 In order that the shaft 6| may be turned through a complete revolution to reset the sets of printing wheels E and G, one end thereof is provided with a gear I I2 fixed thereto which meshes with an idler gear "i3 rotatably mounted on the shaft' 72 previously mentioned. Gear '.'3 also meshes with gear H3 xed to a shaft ||4 which shaft is provided with a coupling ||5 for receiv-v ingthe shaft 'I8 previously referred to as extending from the register and being operated in unison with the reset shaft l? thereof. Accordingly, when the reset shaft I'I is rotated to reset the register, the shaft 6| is also rotated to'. reset the' sets of printing wheels E and G to zero. 
 It will be appreciated that, in order to accomplish the desired synchronization or" printing wheels and register wheels previously mentioned in a subsequent counting operation, 'the yokesltand 61 and the driving mechanism therefor must also be reset, in this case, to the fully advanced position. This is accomplished in the device of the present invention by rotating thev shafts 82 and 94 to effect this positioning of the yokes when the shaft 6| is turned through a complete revolution to reset the sets of printing wheels E and G to zero. The mechanism for carryingvout this operation is best shown in Fig. 10 of the drawings and comprises gears IIS and ||`l freely rotatable on the shafts Q4 and 82, rcspectively, and meshing with the idler gear I3. Gear 13, as previously mentioned, is rotated one complete revolution by gear I I3 attached to reset shaft I I4 during a resetting operation. Fixed to each of the gears IIE and are disks IIS and IIB, respectively, which 'carry spring-pressed pawls |20 adapted to engage in longitudinal grooves |2I and |22 of shafts 94 and 82, respectively, and rotate these shafts when the gears ||6 and I|'| are turned in a resetting direction. Accordingly, the shafts 94 and 82will be picked up by the pawls |20 at whatever rotated position the shafts may be in and will be turned to the desired initial setting when the shaft I4 is turned through one complete revolution. In the specific embodiment shown, the desired initial setting of shafts 94 and 82 which brings the yokes to the fully advanced position is shown, for purposes of illustration, with the grooves |2| and |22 on top, as viewed in Figs. 10, 11 and 12. The gears I I6 and I Il are meshed with gear 'I3 in such relatively rotated positions that, vwhen reset shaft ||4 is in its initial starting position, the pawls |20 of disks IIS and IIS are located at the top of shafts 94 and 82, as shown in the drawings. Thus, when thedisks ||8 and ||9 are turned through one complete revolution, they will rotate shafts 94 and 82 always to the desired initial setting with theyokes fully advanced. Accordingly, in a subsequent dispensing operation, the yokes will be retracted during the first half count handle 24 on the recorder for effectingl this re'-y setting operation. As best shownin Fig. 5`of the drawings, the crank handle 24 is xed toa shaft |23 extending through the cap portion 2| of the recorder housing and journaled therein and having a coupling |24 at its" innemend for attachment to the shaft 36. Accordinglyf by rotating; 
the .crank handle 24, it'ispssible to reset theV register and the recorder in unison.` i 
 It is'contemplated, in accordance with the iii-f` vention, that theregister mechanism C will be provided with a suitable stop of uany conventional type to insure that the resetting mechanism is turned through exactly one complete cycle when the operating crank handle 24 is turned bythe operator. Y 
- Printingmechanz'sm As previously mentioned, the sets of printing wheels E and G are intended to be used to print the cost and volume totals shown onthe register f C 'at the completion of a dispensing operation.`l` 
Accordingly, the periphery of the printing wheels of sets E and G are permitted to extend through an opening |30 in a plate- I3I placed across the top of the base portion 20 of the recorder housing. Adjacent thereto and extending into a similar opening I 32 in plate |3| are a series of print--` ling Wheels |33 which are mounted on a shaft |34 carried by a frame |35 pivotally mounted at |36 inA theV baseportion 20 of thefrecorder housing, 
as best shown in Fig. 7 of the drawings. The 
printing wheels |33 may have any desired indicia thereonso as to indicate, for example, the vdate ofthe transaction and/ or the name of the operator, etc. These printing wheels |30 are adapted-y to be set by hand merely by swinging the frame |35 downwardly to permit the wheels |33 to be turned manually. The frame |35 is retained in its upward printing position Aby a suitable latch vmechanism indicated vat |31. In alignment with the printing wheels |33- and also mounted on the frame |35'is a printing plate v|40 which may carry additional desired indicia such as'the name and address of the service stationA-and/or adj vertising mattei', etc.' There isV also provided in the cap portion 2| of the recorder housing a slot I4| registering with the top of the plate |3| so as to v`permit the insertionof a conventional charga-plate |42 which can be merelya` metal plate having raised indicia identifying the purchaser and his account number, etc. A gate |43 received in a slot |44 and urged downwardly by springs |45 normally closes the slot I4I v to prevent vthe entrance of moisture, etc. and also. assists in positioning thev charga-plate |42 when inserted therein. 
Accordingly, when the charga-plate |42 is inserted through the slot |4| and the frame |35 is latchezl in its upward positionQthere is then in alignment all ofthe desired indicia for printing a sales slip or receipt, namelythe identity of the purchaser, identification of the station and date, etc., and the amount and cost of thegasoline which has been dispensed. 
It is contemplated, in accordance with theirs' 91' ventiuni. thatfxariprinted receipt er; sales s lpiWfll beema'de; on anaccounting formwidelyusedicornrmerciallyr; and .consisting of fa plurality; o sheets; of Apaper 'provided ivy-ithv aiearbon surface orgine cluding carbon paper sheets so that a recordiwill beoobtained Lon.a.,.plurality.` of sheets Vmerely by pressing the/ printing: indiciak 'thereagainst ,and v Withoutv any.v Jprovision .forleinking the printing members.. The v:preparationy of` such .'manifold forms ands-their.- eonstruetion 'forms no, part; of thelpresentzinyenton andit is contemplated that anyonefof ytheinumber of readilylavailable' types can be utilized` Such a form, as:.indicatedda@y grammatically: by.: dot,l andadash; lines. at |46. .in Fig-:216; ist inserted'iby the.;operatorrthrough slot |49 to overliev the ..-'printingf; members .Whenever` it?. isi idesiredlto :print aV 1 record `of .g aetransaeton.' wIniorderito printithelmanifoldfforrns with` the various indicia referred tof'ithere isz provided an. individual roller |50 for-beach'iofvtheesetslof: indioia. Each roller I-at'k is arrangedsto bei' rolled aeross-a-portion` ofl themanifold-form resting on? *one-Toil thesets ofiv printing; indicia, i. e.,y Yone rollerffor allarga-plate M2, a` second roller `for printing Wheels |33 and plate |40, andvr a third rollerffor the sets of`printingwheiels and G. Each of: the rollers |5-is mountedion a 'shaft |55,-the endsvofwhich are' received in velongated grooves |56i-inani individual -frame |51.r The mountingmechanism-for each roller |50k is the same' andI 1 identicalreference numerals will .be utilized throughout. --The vframes |51y are supported. on' bolts |58 which are-threadably/and adj ustably.` received in dependingposts |59 in the cap yportion 2|y fof the recorder housing. The frames |51 rest on the head of the bolts |53 which thereby limits the lowermost position of the-rollers |58; The frames |51f'-arelurged toward the printing indicia by relatively heavy springs 50 surrounding' the fbolts |58. The' grooves |56 are formed as best shown in Fig; -of the ydra-vvir'igs andare so arranged that thel'ro'llers 15E! W-ill befraisedabove thevlevel of the-*slots'lill and |41"W`hen the roller'is intheatE rest position,- as shown in Fig. 5 of the drawi-n'gs.v -As willbe noted, the grooves |56 are provided-.Withan upwardly-curved endportion |55 Which permits-this retraction of the rollers E50. Whenr therollers IED-are moved fromv right to left, asf-Viewed in-Fig. 5 ofthe drawings, the rollers' |50 are rst brought downwardly to engage the manifold formand press it against the printing indiciaand the rollers then travel the entirefwidthlofr the device to insure that all of theA printing indicia is brought into contact with the manifoldwform. When the' rollers lii are moved fromy .left to right, 'as viewed in Fig. 5 of the drawings; rthe reverseaetion takes place and-the rollers are fnallyidrawn upwardly above the levelv of: thel form. 
. .Ina order to,y permit the* shafts lggarejournaled in v'yokes |5| which arepivotally Hfastened,et |62; to arms |63'Which, inl turn,:are .1xed at theother Vend. to. a,v shaft; ,I 54 extending( transversely of' the` housing. Accord.- ingly; V,Whenf theshaft, |55 is, rotated in a clock- Wise.diree'tion as viewed in Fig. 5*, the arms |63. 
will. 315,0bemoved :or .pivoted in aycloekwise di motion causing'. the rollers t0 vmove from right.v to 
leftiiithegrooves |56. ;Reversely, when the shaft position Shown 'inf-fdottedlinesiin Fis..L 5 of the: 
drawings. 
operationv of the rollers 5 0 :.vnforder-:to: nitritey theShaftiilntheeerik handle,L y25 previously referred'- to `is ,turnedgby the opera-tor. lThis ,crankhandle25ffis'fixed @tof hub iii-which; is sjournaledin thereeorder eine andi which has iixedftherzetofaseeer segment i |111'- 'Iiie hub mais oexiallvnmounted;withrespeot :to sh'ift.v |64 and hasfaebore' l 10! for.;.tat'ciiily-gref ,eiringftheiendjofshaft |64. s Qn-@nesideffofrthe geaifsegment is'apin; 11i-.Which ferm,a lost' `motion ponneetion ',Wi xedftogtheshaft |164. 4NVhsT-:rl thegeran is:` turned L in 1; arclonkwisef direction, as Niettemin Fig.;5thefpinfA l'12::engages the arm. f1 mi the shaft, '|64- taberotated;andoaiislngtheY ing4 operati,,on:to g1 takerplace,.,:asepreviouslya scribed.` f'i )fig 'zleturnfmoyement oflthe shaft .-liihis ,eifeetedaby means; gaf spring |154f.extendingrab-etweenthe housingfandaanf. arm L zai'sofxed ,toifthe shaft; thisspring being tensioneda-vvhle thehandleaantl hence the shaftzvl difisiturnedfiin thesinitialtdiiiecrl. tion. Return-movementiof the1,shafitrliiis?haltedk When-.the ,rollerv shafts |.55rr11iea'chpictliei ends e012 grooves lid-at the curvedifportionw|l5 gear;segment |11@y and@ hence hub'gusfand :handle are? returnedf-"thevrestfof thev Way: toifinijtial' starting positionaby s al lspring loop 2| 18v -extending aroundf a-huband connected? attitseendsf-ito arm HSLand-pin |12.` Initial'-starting'positio Qfii'ge'ar segment l 1151s `eontro'lled by.-,a"sto"p"| 191' fIf-'ifoi someireason rollersl-|5ll should become 'stel`,lsl as"-b'ecause of 'a' toothi'ek manifoldiform 'orallarga-plate,v fork example, andi springadvancement' will not be-ina eondi., on t orwill print -two partial numbers h h ifngto confusion. Accordingly, provisie e rnaderaecorfdancewith the invention, t pro efiyaiign the-vprintipgjfwheeisjby `c'o'mp1einig?tine" advanc,ernmentof` any such partially'A aYqlvagliied` printing, Wheel'srvhii. the .haiidleiiisftiiiiiedto: eflectaprinting operation A' fr j AS/ best' Shown. in" Fiss-1 aiiidl'i'efihe draw# ings, gefiiql. Qflsie. di-italie.mountedioi' ioieiigfirbr thezgeeifllegimeni ...l il@ Beidseitsegmrii `l f1 I .andiheeear l aierroviiiedfwih interruptedteeth so arranged thfatvth "l 60, Will be rotated onlyjflorva partial ,revolutie handle.25 and that Willnoceuronlyath Stege Of. movement. @tithe gear; ,riemen .IIJ 
Furtherlmoyement of theeear, segmenti-1 'Lcausesi 11 and-|89 rotatably mountedon shafts 94 and 82, respectively, and which are similar to the gears ||6 and lll-referred to previously. The gears |88 and |89 are fixed to disks |90 and |9I, respectively,fw'hich disks are of exactly the same type 'as disks H8 and` ||9 previously described and eachof which'carries a similar spring-pressed pawl |20 for engaging the longitudinal grooves |2| and-|22'in the shafts 94 and 82 when the disksare turned in a clockwise direction, as viewed in Fig. of the drawings, but permitting the-'shafts 94 and 82 to be advanced independently of rotation of the disks |90 and |9|, as duringresetting or registering, as previously dec scribed.'y The gears |88 and |89 are meshed with gear |81 in a relatively rotated position such that; when'shaft 12 is in its initial rotated position,the'pawlsl'|20 of disks |90 and |9| are located onthe underside of shafts 94 and 82 as shown v"in the drawings. This position is 180 from `the position of the pawls of the disks ||8 and I9 in their initial rotated position. Accordinglygrotationof the disks |90 and I 9| through one'completerevolution will cause the pawls |20 thereof to 4'engagein the grooves |2| and |22 in whatever rotated position the shafts 94 and` 82 are in and will advance these shafts to a position with the grooves. |2| and |22 underneath, i. e., exactly 180 from that shown in the drawings. If it'is not desired to utilize the same grooves |2| and |22 for engagement by both sets of disks, the same result can be accomplished by using separate grooves for engagement by the disks I8 and H9 which may be angularly spaced from the grooves |2| and |22. `In that event, the location ofpawls |20 of disks |90 and |9| with respect to the positionof the pawls |20 of disks ||8 and |9-is,immaterial and will depend on the location of the separate groovesgit being necessary only that the operation of the. disks |90 and |9| will bie-i0 rotate thesbafts 94 and 82 to a rotated positionliiOff-rom that to which it is rotated by disks H9 and I9 whenthe disks are given one completerevolution.v The gear ratios employed areisuch that the plates' |90 and |9| are rotated one complete turn when the gear |80 is only partially turned as described by the gear segment Accordingly, the yokes 66 and 61 of the printing` wheel sets E and G will be pivoted to the fully retracted position before the printing of the sales slip 4takes place, and in so doing will first complete any partial-advancement of the yoke and printing wheels. Accordingly, it is insured that the printing wheels will be brought into proper alignment sothat an accurate and legible printing of thecost and volume and FJasoline dispensed-can be made. Also, because the .vokes 66 and 61 are pivoted in a direction for advancing the printing wheels only after the register wheels have been'advanced a half count, as previously described,` it is insured that, even though the printing wheels are advanced, they will still show a legitimate charge, and there will be no advancement of the printing Wheels if less than half a count-is registered on the register wheels. 
 .It thus willbe-seen that, in the operation of the recorder of the present invention, there will always be an accurate synchronization and correspondence between the printing wheels and the register wheels and this desired relationship is notv disturbed in any way by repeated resetting and; printing" operations even though the latter requires an aligning of the printing wheels which advances the printing wheels only in legitimate amounts and operates through the driving mechanism (as does the resetting mechanism) thereby avoiding duplication of elements. Accurate printing is assured in a simple and convenient manner, and the device is compact, economical in design, easy to operate, and foolproof in functioning. 
 As many changes could be madein the above construction and many apparently widely different embodiments of this invention could be made without departing from the scope thereof, itis intended that all matter contained in the above description or shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense. 
 It is also to be understood that the language used in the following claims is intended to cover all of the generic and specific features of the invention herein described and all statements of the scope of the invention which, as a matter of language, might be said to fall therebetween. 
I claim asmy invention: i- 
 1. In a recorder for connection to a register of the type having a first rotatable shaft for resetting the register to zero and a second shaft rotated in response to the number of units registered, the combination comprising a plurality of Wheels having printing indicia thereon, means for advancing said wheels connectible to said second shaft, means for resetting the printing wheels to zero connectible torsaid first shaft, means for adjusting the rotated position of the printing wheels to align the printing indicia thereof, means for taking a printed impression of said printing wheels, and means operable independently of the resetting means for actuating the aligning means and the printing means in sequence. 
 2. In a recorder for connection to a register of the type having a first rotatable shaft for resetting the register to zero and a second shaft rotated in response to the number of units registered, the combination comprising a plurality of printing wheels having printing indicia thereon, means for advancing said wheels in stepwise fashion including a reciprocable member, means for reciprocating the reciprocable member connectible to the said second shaft of the register, means for resetting the printing Wheels to zero connectible to said rst shaft of the register, means operated by the resetting means for moving the reciprocating means to a predetermined starting position, means for taking a printed impression of said printing wheels, and means operated by the printing means for moving the reciprocating means to a predetermined position toh allign the printing indicia of the printing w ee s. 
3. In a recorder for connection to a register of the type having a first rotatable shaft for resetting the register to zero and a second shaft rotated in response to the number of units registered, the combination comprising a plurality of printing wheels having printing indicia thereon, a reciprocable member arranged to advance the printing wheels one full count when the member is advanced, means including a rotatable drive shaft for advancing and retracting the reciprocal member in sequence when the shaft is rotated through one revolution, means including a one- Way clutch for connecting the said rotatable drive shaft to the said second shaft Yof the register, means for resetting the printing wheels to zero including a rotatable reset shaft connectible to the first shaft of the register, means including a one-way drive operated by the reset shaft for rotating the said rotatable drive shaft to a pomeans for connecting the drive shaft to said second shaft of the register arranged to cause rotation of the drive shaft when the second shaft is rotated in a registering direction but permitting the drive shaft to be 'rotated in the same direction independently of rotation of the second shaft, means for advancingthe drive shaft to a rotated position at the start of one of said alternate half turns, platen means mounted for movement relative to the printing wheels, and means for actuating the two last named means in sequence. 
 9. In a recorder for connection to a register of the type having a first rotatable shaft for resetting theregister to zero and a second shaft rotated in response to the number of units registered, the combination comprising a rotatable reset shaft 'connectible to the first shaft of the register, a plurality of'printing wheels in side by side relationship rotatably mounted on said shaft, means including a groove in the reset shaft and pawls carried by the wheels for causing the Wheels to be advanced to zero when the shaft is rotated one full revolution in a registering direction but permitting the wheels to be advanced independently of rotation of the shaft, means including a rotatable drive shaft for advancing the printing Wheels in a stepwise fashion during alternate half turns of the drive shaft, means for advancing the drive shaft to a position at which one of said alternate half turns is completed including a rotatable member and a pawl carried thereby for engaging a groove in the drive shaft, gear means interconnecting the reset shaft and the rotatable member, means for connecting the drive shaft to said second shaft of the regis ter arranged to cause rotation of the drive shaft when the second shaft is rotated in a registering direction but permitting the drive shaft to be rotated in the same direction independently of rotation of the second shaft, means for advancing the drive shaft to a rotated position at the start of one of said alternate half turns including a rotatable member and a pawl carried thereby for engaging a groove in the drive shaft, platen means mounted for movement relative to the printing wheels, and means for rotating the last named rotatable member and actuating the platenmeans in sequence. 
 10. In a recorder for connection to a register ofthe type having a rst rotatable shaft for resetting the register to zero and a second-shaft rotated in response to the number of units registered, the combination comprising a plurality of printing wheels having printing indicia thereon, a reciprocable member arranged to advance the printing wheels one full count when the member is advanced, means including a rotatable drive shaft for advancing and retracting the reciprocal member in sequence when the shaft is rotated through one revolution, means for connecting the drive shaft to said second shaft of the register arranged to cause rotation of the drive shaft when the second shaft is rotated in a registering direction but permitting the drive shaft to be rotated in the same direction independently of rotation of the second shaft, means for advancing the drive shaft to a rotated position at which said reciprocable member is fully advanced, means for resetting the printing wheels to zero connectible to the rst shaft of the register, means forming a driving connection between the two last named means, means for advancing therdrive shaft to a rotated position at which the reciprocal member is fully retracted, means for taking a printed impression of said printing wheels, and means for actuating the two'last named means in sequence. 
 l1. In a recorder for connection to a register of the type having a first rotatable shaft for resetting the register to zero and a second shaft rotated in response'to the number of units registered, the combination comprising a rotatable reset shaft connectible to the first shaft of the register, a plurality of printing wheels in side by side relationship rotatably mounted on said shaft, means including a groove in the reset shaft and pawls carried by the wheels for causing the wheels to be advanced to zero When the shaft is rotated one full revolution in a registering direction but permitting the wheels to be advanced independently of rotation of the shaft, means including a rotatable drive shaft for advancing the printing wheels in a stepwise fashion during alternate half turns of the drive shaft, means for advancing the drive shaft to a position at which one of said alternate half turns is completed including a rotatable member and a pawl carried thereby for engaging a groove in the drive shaft, gear means interconnecting the reset shaft and the rotatable member, means for connecting the drive shaft to said second shaft of the register arranged to cause rotation of the drive shaft when the second shaft is rotated in a registering direction but permitting the drive shaft to be rotated in the same direction independently of rotation of the second shaft, means for advancing the drive shaft to a rotated position at the start of one of said alternate half turns including a rotatable member and a pawl carried thereby for engaging a groove in the drive shaft, platen means mounted for movement relative to the printing Wheels, a manually operable member, means forming a lost motion connection between said manually operable means and the platen means, and means including an interrupted gear member for actuating the last named rotatable member by the manually operable means prior to actuation of the platen means. 
 12. In a recorder for a liquid dispensing device of the type having a register provided with a first shaft for resetting the register to zero and a second shaft rotated in response to the number of units registered, the combination comprising a plurality of printing wheels in side by side rela` tionship, a reset shaft for rotatably supporting the printing wheels, means for advancing the wheels to zero when the reset shaft is turned, manually operable crank means connected for simultaneous operation of the first shaft of the register and said reset shaft, means for advancing the printing wheels in stepwise fashion including a reciprocable member arranged to advance the wheels when the member is advanced, means including a drive shaft for advancing and retracting the reciprocable member in sequence when the shaft is turned through one revolution, means including a one-way clutch for connecting the drive shaft to the second shaft of the register, means on the drive shaft for advancing the shaft until the reciprocable member is fully advanced, gear means interconnecting the last named means and the reset shaft, means on thedrive'shaft including a rotatable member for advancing the shaft until the reciprocable member is fully retracted, platen members mounted for movement relative to the printing wheels, a second manually operable crank means, and means operated by the crank for actuating 17` the .rotatable .meanstand the .platenimeans ein sequence. i "Y i3. In-fa recorder for a liquiddispensin'gxdevice ofthe type having a register provided with'a first shaftk foriresetting the register to zerov and a pair of driven shafts which are rotated retilelfv tivelyin relationship to the quantity andcOStQf the liquidy dispensed., the ,combination @emprise ing two .sets ofrrintins wheels, meansincludinga common resetl shaft for resetting the printing shafts to positions at which the alternate half y turns are completed, gear means interconnecting said shaft'advancing means andthe reset shaft, means for advancing the drive shafts to a rotated position at which the alternatehalfturns yare started, means for taking a printing impression of said printing wheels, and meansfor actuating the two last named means in sequence. 
 -14. In a recorder for a liquid dispensing device of the type having a register providedwith a first shaft .for resetting the register to Zei-,o 'and a `pair of driven shafts which are rotated, respec-v tively, in relationshipto the quantity and cost of 'the liquid dispensed, the combination 'comprising a rotatable resetshaftconnectible toY the first shaft of the register for rotation in unison therewith, two sets of printing wheelsmounted in side by side relationship on vsaid reset shaft, means for advancing the printing wheels to zero when the reset shaft is turned through one revolution, a pair of reciprocable members arranged to advance the sets of printing wheels, respectively, in stepwise Yfashion when the reciprocable members are advanced, means including a pair of drive shafts for advancing and retracting the reciprocable members, respectively, when the drive shafts are rotated through one revolution, means including a one-way clutch for connecting the drive shafts to the driven shafts, respectively,`of the register, means driven by the reset shaft for advancing the drive shafts to a rotated position at which the reciprocable members are fully advanced, platen means movable relative to the printing wheels, means for advancing thedrive shafts to a rotated position at which the reciprocable members are fully retracted, and means for actuating the last-named means and the platen means in sequence. 
 15. In a recorder for a liquid dispensing device of the type having a register provided with a first shaft for resetting the register to zero and a pair of driven shafts which are rotated, respectively, in relationship to the quantity and cost of the liquid dispensed, the combination comprising a rotatable reset shaft connectible to the first shaft of the register for rotation in unison therewith, two sets of printing wheels mounted in side by side relationship on said reset shaft, means for advancing the printing wheels to zero when the reset shaft is turned through one revolution, a pair of reciprocable members arranged to advance the sets of printing wheels, respectively, in stepwise fashion when the reciprocable members are advanced, means including a pair of drive shafts mounted parallel to the reset shaft for advancing and retracting the reciprocable members, respectively, when the drive shafts are rotated through one revolution, means including aaone-Wayclutchfor connecting the..drive shafts I the 4i'reciprocablemembers are `fully advanced, gearmeans including a gear-.on the` reset shaft for `rotatingfthe rotatableL member when the reset'shaftis rotated-.platen means `movable rela.- tive'to theprinting wheels, means vincluding a rotatable member for: advancing the drive shafts toa rotated positionv atwhich the. reciprocable members are fully retracted, a-shaft parallell to the drive shaftsk having gear meansv for:rotating the rotatable member, and means for rotating thelas-t named shaft and actuating the plateny means in sequence.v L 1 c A116.111 a recorder fora' liquid'dispensing device ofthe typehaving -areg'ister provided with a first shaftfor resetting `theregister tozero and a'pairof .driven-shafts which are rotated;respectively, in relationship to the vvquantity andcost ofthe liquid-dispensed, the combination comprising na rotatable reset shaftymeansfor turning the reset shaft and the. firstV shaftof the register in unison, two setsof printing .wheels mounted in sideby side relationshipon said .reset ,shaft, means :for advancing .they printing, wheels, to zero the drive shafts to the driven shafts, respectivev ly, of the register, means including rotatable members on the drive shafts driven by the reset shaft, each having a pawl for engaging a groove in the shaft for advancing the drive shafts to a rotated position atwhich the reciprocable members are fully advanced when the rotatable members are rotated through one revolution, platen means movable relative to the printing wheels, means including rotatable members on the drive shafts having pawls for engaging in grooves in the shafts for advancing the drive shafts to a rotated position at whichL the reciprocable members are fully retracted when the rotatable members are rotated through one revolution, and means for turning the last named rotatable members through one complete revolution and actuating the platen means in sequence. 
 17. In a recorder for a liquid dispensing device of the type having a register provided with a first shaft for resetting the register to zero and a pair of driven shafts which are rotated, respectively, in relationship to the quantity and cost of the liquid dispensed, the combination comprising a rotatable reset shaft connectible to the first shaft of the register vfor rotation in unison `theree bers are advanced, means including a pair of` drive shafts for advancing and retractingv the reciprocable members, respectively, when` the drive shafts are rotated through one revolution, 
means including a one-way clutch for connect-- ing the drive shafts to the driven shafts, respectively, of the register, means driven by the reset shaft for advancing the drive shafts to a rotated .position at which the reciprocable members are fully advanced, platen means including a roller .movable axially across the printing wheels, rotatable means for advancing the drive'shafts to a rotated position at which the reciprocable members are fully retracted, means including a manually operable crank for actuating the last named rotatable means and the platen means in sequence, and spring means for returning the last named means to starting position, 
 18` In a recorder for a liquid dispensing device of the typehaving a register provided with a first shaft for resetting the register to zero and a pair of driven shafts which are rotated, respectively, in relationship to the quantity and cost of the liquid dispensed, the' combination comprising a rotatable reset shaft, means including a manually operable member connectible to the rst shaft of the register for rotating the reset shaft and rst shaft in unison, two sets of printing wheels mounted in side by side relationship on said reset shaft, means for advancing the printing wheels to zero when the reset shaft is turned through one revolution, a pair of reciprocable members arranged to advance. lthe sets of printing wheels, respectively, in stepwise fash-Y ion when the reciprocable members are advanced. 
means including a pair of drive shafts parallel to the reset shaft for advancing and retracting the reciprocable members, respectively,'when the drive shafts are rotated through one revolution, means including a one-way clutch for connecting the drive shafts to the driven shafts, respectively, of the register, means including a pair of rotatable members mounted on the drive shafts "and driven by the reset shaft for advancing the drive shafts to a rotated position at which the reciprocable members areV fully advanced, platen means movable relative to the printing wheels, means including a pair of rotatable members mounted on the drive shafts for advancing the drive shafts to a rotated position at which the reciprocable members are fully retracted, a manually opera.- ble crank, means including an interrupted gear for rotating the last named rotatable means during a part of the rotation of the crank, and means including a lost motion connection for actuating the platenv means during a subsequent portion ofthe rotation of the crank. 
' HAROLD B. vRooM. 
REFERENCES CITED The following references are of record in the file of this patent: 
UNITED STATES PATENTS Number Name VDate 452,402 Townsley May 19, 1891 823,375 l Trinks June 12, 1906 1,283,789 Johnson Nov. 5, 1918 1,439,163 Harness Dec. 19, 1922 1,770,079 Leppla July 8, 1930 2,086,363 McMullen July 6, 1937 2,087,315 Bugg et al. July 20, 1937 2,312,137 Watson Feb. 23', 1943 2,425,072 Pearson Aug. 5, 1947