Gelling 
US-3076597-A
nan
1963-02-05
https://patents.google.com/patent/US3076597A/en
Feb. 5, 1963 EL NG 3,076,597 
APPARATUS FOR PRINTING OF AMOUNTS BEING ROUNDED OFF BEHIND THE DECIMAL POINT IN CALCULATING MACHINES Filed April 27, 19 9 5 Sheets-Sheet 1 Fig.7 
 a '4 U U ULI Ll U U U 9 oboooopooor? I wil 72:] L 
' n nun \6 6300000 A 1' (DOC) (DOG Feb. 5, 1963 H. GELLING 3, 
 APPARATUS FOR PRINTING 0F AMOUNTS BEING ROUNDED OFF BEHIND THE DECIMAL POINT IN CALCULATING mamas Filed April 27, 1959 5 Sheets-Sheet 3 INVENTOR. 
Feb. 5, 1963 GELUNG 3,076,597 
APPARATUS FOR PRINTING OF AMOUNTS BEING ROUNDED OFF BEHIND THE DECIMAL POINT IN CALCULATING MACHINES Filed April 27, 1959 5 Sheets-Sheet 4 Fig. 5 
INVENY/LOR. I 
Feb. 5, 1963 H. GELLI'NG APPARATUS FOR PRINTING OF AMOUNTS BEING ROUNDED OFF BEHIND THE DECIMAL POINT IN CALCULATING MACHINES 5 Sheets-Sheet 5 Filed April 27, 1959 Unrenf'or United Patent 3375,5597 APPARATUS FQR Rdif "IKNG AMQUNTS EEHNG EOUNDED hil lhli). THE DEQHMAL PQENT IN CALQULZATKIG Mr'MIlaliNES Helmut Geiiing, Uhn (Dan-aha}, Germany, assignor to Waither Fromasehinen rn.h.1-i., Essen, Germany, a Filed 2?, i959, Ser. No. a t-39,141 
Claims priority, Germany h iay e, 1958 ll Claims, (til. 235-61) The invention relates to an apparatus of calculating machines having a shiftable main totalizer, a differential mechanism, a printing device, and a multiplying device, arranged for printing of products or other amounts from the main totalizer which will be struck off and rounded off behind the decimal point in a denominationaliy correct manner. 
 With such machines the decimal point position of the product or the like of the main totalizer has to be brought into agreement with the decimal point position of the differential mechanism, the printing device and the auxiliary totalizers by corresponding shifting the totalizer slide in order that all amounts to be printed are correctly superpositioned, or the amounts of the main totalizer can be transmitted to the auxiliary totalizer in a denominationally correct manner. 
 The number of demoninations of the product on the right of the decimal point, corresponding to the sum of the number of the denominations of the multiplicand and the multiplier, has the effect that the totalizer slide is to be shifted to the right by a certain number of denominations, mostly by the number of denominations of the multiplicator on the right of the decimal point. This shifting is to be performed after the termination of the multiplication in which the totalizer assumes its normal position and in which the outermost right denominations of the differential mechanism and the totalizer register with one another, when it is the decimal point position of the multiplicand introduced into the differential mechanuism which has to determine the decimal point position of the product. 
 In this instance a corresponding number of the last denominations on the right of the main totalizer come out of the region of the differential mechanism so that these denominations will not be printed and consequently being struck oil. 
 It is known in the art, to increase by one actuation unit the last denomination on the right to be printed, when the highest denomination to be rounded off represents a digital value of five and more. This rounding off will be brought about by adding five units to the highest denomination to be struck off. 
 With the above mentioned kind of calculating machines to which the invention relates, the functions of the machine necessary for the rounding off and the movement of the totalizer slide into the correct comma position will be set and performed, one after the other, by hand. This takes up much time and easily leads to mistakes. 
 In order to avoid these drawbacks according to the invention, there is annexed to the multiplication and to the setting of the denominations on the right of the decimal point to be struck oif a striking off-cycle of operation of the machine which is initiated by the rounding ofl means, during which, in the first place, in the normal position of the totalizer slide five units will be added to the highest denomination to be struck cit, subsequently whereof the totalizer slide will be moved from its normal position to the right by a number of denominations corresponding to the number of the denominations to be struck off, and at the end of this movement all driving and control parts will be returned into the normal position, and the drive mechanism will be arrested. 
 In order to set the denominations to be rounded off a transversely shiftable setplate is provided for which is provided with a locking edge for locking the difierential members in their normal position, a recess in said locking edge for releasing one of the differential members by five units, and a stepped lug for adjusting a step controlling means for the denominational shifting of the totalizer slide. 
 At the end of the multiplication, the rounding off means being will be operated, the totalizer slide assumes its normal position, the differential members with exception of the one of the highest denomination to be struck off will be locked in their normal position, the striking. olicycle of operation of the machine will be automatically initiated by the movement of the restoring bar into its stroke end position under transmitting the five rounding off units into the multiplying mechanism, and the starting of the multiplying device, the disengaging of the actuation of the revolution counter, and of the step controlling organ for the movement of the totalizer slide into the correct denominational transmitting position will be prepared. 
 At the end of the multiplication a leverplate, operatively connected with the restoring bar bar by means of the rounding off means Will be displaced, whereat the leverplate locks itself in its rocking position, brings the 'shiftable setplate in the locking position for the differential members, engages the coupling for the restoring bar for the actuation of the differential members, releases the step controlling means locked in its position of rest for the movement towards the adjusted step, and puts a lug into the path of the restoring bar by which lug, on being struck by the restoring bar inits stroke end position at the end of the revolution of the multiplying device the totalizer shifting coupling will be engaged and the actuation of the revolution counter will be disengaged. 
 The step controlling organ consists of a spring urged rod, which senses the steps of the setplate by a finger and provides for two ratchet gearings, the one of which cooperating with a retrograde locking pawl whilst the other one being in engagement with a actuating pawl which restores the step controlling organ into its normal posi tion during the rounding off operation. 
 At the end of the sin le revolution of the multiplying device on the striking off and rounding off operation the coupling of the multiplying device will be disengaged whilst the coupling for the shifting of the totalizer slide will be engaged. This engagement will be secured by a locking device until, on the step movement of the step controlling organ, a lug connected therewith releases the locking device. 
 Further features of the invention result from the following description of an example of embodiment of the invention. 
In the accompanying drawing: 
 FIG. 1 is a scheme of the arrangement of the main mechanisms of the calculating machine. 
 FIG. 2 is a side elevational view of the setting, controlling and drive parts utilized for the rounding ofi operation. 
 FIG. 3 is a top view of the parts of FIG. 2 together with a part of the totalizer slide and the set pin carriage; 
 FIG. 4 is a side elevational view of the drive mecha nism for the restoring bar. 
 FIG. 5 is a side elevational view of the three utilized drive couplings together with the controlling levers for the slide shifting coupling. 
FIG. 6 is a side elevational view of a part of the controlling means and the disengaging device of the rev olution counter. 
FIG. 7 is a detail. 
 FIG. 8 is a side elevation of an actuating rack and parts coacting therewith. 
Rounding O of Decimal Fractions The invention is determined for the application to a calculating machine of the kind according to the scheme illustrated in FIGURE 1. The diflierential mechanism provides difierential members in the form of actuating racks 1 located side by side, one for each denomination, on to which the amount set by the setting mechanism 2 will be transmitted and through multiplying mechanism 3 arrives at a main totalizer 4. The main totalizer is mounted in a slide 5 or carriage which is shiftable from denomination to denomination. 
 The setting mechanism may be, as is illustrated, of the ten key type with which the digits of the depressed keysv of the amount to be introduced (multiplicand or items), at the first place, arrive at a set pin carriage moved step by step, the set pins of which displaced by the keys form lugs for the adjustment of spring urged differential mem-' bers or actuating racks 1, when they have been released; from a joint restoring bar. 
 On adding, with which the main totalizer is retained in the illustrated normal shifting position in which its outermost right counting wheel 6 being placed in theplane of the outermost right toothed rack 1, the introduced amount will be transmitted, by a single revolution of the multiplying mechanism 3, from the actuating racks 1 to the main totalizer 4, or to stationary auxiliary totalize'rs 7, or storing devices. 
 Simultaneously, the introduced amount may be printed by means of printing mechanism the type carriers 8 of which being adjusted by the actuating racks to a paper sheet or paperstrip 9 of a laterally movable or nonmovable paper carrier. 
 When, on such adding, the added items having corresponding decimal point positions are introduced and striking off of denominations on the right of decimal point is not to be performed, as the main totalizer isretained in its normal position, on transmitting ofa value from the main totalizer onto an auxiliary totalizer, or the printing mechanism 8, a movement of the main totalizer out of its normal position is not necessary. For efiecting multiplications the multiplying mechanism 3 more fully explained further on will be set through the actuating racks '1 according to the multiplicand and caused to a number of revolutions corresponding to the different digits of the multiplier, whereat the calculated partial products will be transmitted to the main totalizer, which will be shifted to the right from denomination to denomination. 
 The control of the revolutions of the multiplying mechanism and of the stepwise shifting of the main totalizer to the right and likewise the returning of the main totalizer at the end of the multiplication into its normal position will be performed by a multiplier mechanism 11, further explained below, in which the multiplier, set, before the entering of the multiplicand, by means of the setting mechanism 2 or particular multiplier keys will be stored. On the revolution of the multiplying mechanism the multiplier digits will be denominationally transmitted to the revolution counter 12, which is unshiftably lodged in the machine, but which may also be placed on the slide for the main totalizer. 
 As far as the multiplier represents a Whole number which case may be indicated by the position 13' of the decimal point slide 13 of the revolution counter the value of the main totalizer will be transmitted, when the totalizer slide again assumes its normal position, to the auxiliary totalizer 7 and to the printing mechanism 8 in a denominationally correct manner, no matter whether the multiplicand is a decimal fraction or a whole number. When, however, the multiplier represents a decimal fraction, the number of denominations on the right of the decimal point are summed up from that of the multiplicand and that of the multiplier. in the case in which the multiplicand of the decimal fraction or a Whole number. nations the product has five denominations on the right of the decimal point, as may be indicated by the positions 14' of the decimal point slide 14 for the main totalizer. 
 When the product is to be transmitted onto an auxiliary totalizer 7 or the printing mechanism 3 in a fixed decimal point position (decimal point slide 14), for instance, in the decimal point position of the multiplicand, therefore, the slide 5 of the main totalizer must be shifted by a corresponding number of orders to the right, here three denominations, Whereat the three outermost denominations on the right of the main totalizer come out of the region of the actuating racks 1 being separated out of the further calculating operations and consequently have to be considered as being struck off. 
 it is desirable to increase the outermost right, not struck off denomination of the fraction by one unit when the highest denomination being struck off represents the digital value 5 or more. 
 This rounding off is to be brought about previously to the shifting of the totalizer to the right, if it is intended to perform the rounding off by means of one of the actuating racks. 
 Naturally, the said shifting of the main totalizer is to be performed by another number of denominations in the case that the value of the product is to be increased or decreased by a number of denominations, for instance in percent calculations. For the understanding of the machine function necessary for the striking off and rounding off the mechanisms participating therein and being utilized for the normal multiplication Without rounding 01f will be, in the following, briefly explained General Structure of the Utilized Calculating Machine The actuating racks 1 (FIG. 3 are urged by tension springs 15 (FIG. 2) and cooperate with a joint restoring bar 16 by which they usually will be held against the actions of their springs 15 in their normal position represented in FIG. 2. 
 The restoring bar 16 is attached at its ends to drawing rods 17 (FIG. 4) which are guided at their other ends by links 18, seizing by means of s ots 19 over crank pins 20 of crank arms 22 of a driveshaft 21. 
 On the first half revolution of the shaft 21 the restoring bar 16 (FIG. 2) will be moved out of its normal position into its stroke end position represented by dash and dot lines 16', whereat the actuating racks 1 with lugs 23 strike and being arrested by adjusted set pins 24 of the set pin carriage 25. The set pin carriage is mounttransversely shiftably on two cross rods 26, 27 (FIG. 
 For the execution of a complete multiplication followed by the particular cycle of operation for rounding off, which is alone to be taken into consideration for the nvention, in the first place, the multiplier Will be entered into the set pin carriage by means of the digit keys of the setting mechanism by depressing the set pins 25 and then the multiplier key 256 (FIG. 1) will be depressed. 
 By so doing, a cycle of operation is released on which the multiplier will be transmitted to the multiplier mechanism 11 through the actuating rods 1 (PEG. 8). The multiplier mechanism consists of ordinally arranged, horizontally guided racks 257 having ratchet teeth, usually urged to the right by springs 2% into the illustrated normal position, in which they contact by means of an car 259 fingers 260 of the actuating rods. 
 0n shifting of the actuating rods 1 to the right according to the multiplier, the ratchet racks 257 will be taken along by the fingers 269 and held fast by spring urged retrograde pawls 261 in their set positions. 
 After that, the multiplicand will be set by means of the digit keys of the setting mechanism 2. and transmitted thereby to the set pins 24 of the set pin carriage 25. Then the multiplication key 28 (FIG. 2) will be depressed. By so doing, a series of cycles of operations will be initiated on which the product of the multiplication of the multiplier and the niultiplicand is formed in the multiplying mechanism 3 (FIG. 8). 
 The multiplying mechanism has the form of a pawl actuating mechanism, for instance, according to the subject matter of the US. Patent specification No. 2,824,691. On a shaft 252 (FIG. 8), which is permanently rotated after the multiplying mechanism coupling 32 (FIG. 5) has been engaged, in each order a holding member 2&3 for a pawl ass is provided for. 
 The pawl 254 cooperates with a ratchet gear 265 of an actuating ring see which coacts by means or" an external toothing 267 with the main totalizer 4. 
 The engagement of the pawl 264 into the ratchet gear 265 is controlled by a cam notch 26% located on a setting disc 269, engaging the actuating rod 1 of the respective order and adjusted according to the respective digit of the multiplicand by the movement of the actuating rod l to the right on the releasing of the restoring bar 16. 
 During the first cycle or" operation of the series of cycles of operations initiated by the multiplication key 28 the restoring bar 16 will remain, after the first half of revolution of the driving shaft 21 (FIG. 4), in its position to (FIG. 2) until the end of the multiplying operation, since a restoring bar coupling 29 (FIG. 5) connecting the shaft 21 with the drive mechanism of the machine Will be disengaged. At the same time a multiplying mechanism coupling 32, mounted on a shaft, 31 (FIG. 5) will be engaged, this coupling being arranged between the drive mechanism of the machine and the multiplying mechanism 3 (MG. 1). Thereby, the holding member 263 of the multiplying mechanism will be turned performing in each order a number of revolutions corresponding to the respective digit of the multiplier under the control of the multiplier mechanism ill, whereat the multiplicand Will be added corresponding times onto the main totalizer in the concerned position of the totalizer slide. Subsequently, the totalizer slide 5 will be moved by one denomination to the right. This will e brought about by the engagement of a slide shifting coupling 33 (PEG. 5), mounted on a shaft 3 Further revolutions of the multiplying mechanism will be annexed according to the digital value of the pro-set multiplier under corresponding stepwise shifting of the totalizer slide 5 (FIG. 1). The controlling of the number of revolutions of the multiplying mechanism 3 according to the multiplier set in the multiplier mechanism Ill is caused by the stepwise returning of the ratchet rack 257 (FIG. 8) into its normal position in the following manner: 
 Below the ratchet rack 257 (HS. 8) a square shaft 27a) is rockably mounted on which an axially shiftable slide piece 2'71 is arranged mounting by means of a pin 272 an actuating pawl 2'73 cooperating with the ratchet racks 257 and moving the respective ratchet rack 257 by one pitch to the left on rocking counterclockwise of the shaft 270. 
 The rocking of the shaft 276 is caused by an arm 274 secured to the shaft 27% by means of a rod 2'76 linked to said arm by means of a pin 275'. The rod 275 is provided with an open slot 277 cooperating with an eccentric pin 273 of a shaft 279. 
 The shaft 279 (FIG. 6) is operatively connected by means of toothed wheels with the driven part of the multiplying coupling 32 (see also FIG. 5). 
 On engaging this coupling, therefore, also the shaft 27% (FIG. 8) will be rocked, the eccentric pin 27? being in mesh with the slot 277, on each revolution of the multiplying mechanism 3 and returns the respective ratchet rack 257 by one step. When the latter arrives at its normal position, the multiplying mechanism coupling will be disengaged and the slide piece 271 will be moved below the adjacent ratchet rack 257 and the totalizer slide 6 5 will be moved by one order to the left (FIG. 1). After performance of the revolutions of the multiplying mechanism 3 according to the last denomination of the preset multiplier, the totalizer 4 contains the product and will be automatically returned to the left into the normal position illustrated in FIG. 1. 
 'l'hen, on the termination of the multiplying operation the restoring bar coupling 29* (FIG. 5) will be again engaged in order to cause the second half of the revolution or" the crank arm 22 (FIG. 4) by means of the shaft 21 whereby the restoring bar 16 (FIG. 2) will be returned again into its normal position situated on the left, in a given case the printing of the product by the printing mechanism 8 (FIG. 1) and the transmitting onto the auxiliary totalizer '7 takes place, the set pin carriage will be returned to its normal position, and the setting mechanism of the machine will be released. 
 in order to put into action the multiplying mechanism, after the first half of the revolution of the shaft 21 (PEG. 4-) has been terminated, during which the adjustment of the setting mechanism has been transmitted onto mu" lying mechanism 3 by means of the actuating racns (PEG. l), on dep'essing of the multiplication lacy 2) a lever linked to a pin 36 and urged by "7 had been recited downward into the of the storing bar 16 by means of a pin 35 fixed to the multiplication key 28 (Fl-G. 2). The pin 36 is seen ed to an arm m unted on a stationary pin To the or n a rod 43., which leads to the multiplying mec anisrn c upling 32 (FIG. 5) is linked. When the restoring bar to, at the end of its movement to the position lid, strikes the left end of the lever 38 (FIG. 2), this lever will be moved to the right engaging the multiplying coup through the rod il so that the multiplying mechanism subsequently accomplishes its revolutions in dependence on the multiplier mechanism 111. 
 The mentioned three drive couplings for the restoring -ar, the multiplying mechanism and the slide shifting 29, 32, 33 (FIG. 5) are provided, in a known manner, with coupling pawls 43, 4d loosely mounted on the shaft d5, which rotate together with the driven parts of their couplings and cooperate with stop levers 46, 47, 250 (FIG. 6), ill (FIG. 5) in such a manner that the stop levers, as illustrated, usually hold the coupling pawl in their disengaged positions thereby disengaging the couplings, and upon moving the stop levers away from the coupling pawls the coupling will be engaged, in order to rotate the corresponding drive shafts 21, 3t, 34-. 
 The couplings rendered effective will be disengaged when the stop levers are returned in the path of the coupling pawls. The stop levers are under the action of springs by V/LlCh they are urged to rock into their releasing position. They will be usually held in their stopposition by locking levers rotably mounted on a rod 49 (FIG. 6). The stop lever 46 for the normal position of the restoring bar coupling bears, with its arm 53, on a lug 53 of the associated locking lever 52; the stop lever 25%? for the position of the restoring bar coupling beats with its arm on the lug of the associated locking lever 252 (FIG. 3); the stop lever 47 for the multiplying mechanism coupling with its arm 53 bears from below on a lug 54 of the associated locking lever 55, and the stop lever as (PEG. 5) for the slide shifting coupling bears with an arm 56 on a lug 57 of the associated locking lever The released stop levers will be restored from their released position into their stop position by means of rollers mounted on them and tensioning cams of the driven coupling parts. As far as it will be necessary for the understanding, these devices will be hereinafter more fully explained. 
Preuaratz'on of the Rounding Ofl and Striking Of} Operation If subsequently to the elfectuating of a product by the multiplying mechanism the shitting of the totalizer slide amass? into the denominationally correct decimal point position and the striking oil of denominations to the right of the decimal point and rounding oil is to be performed, previous to the beginning of the calculation a rounding off lever 59 rockably mounted on the pin 39 (FIG. 2) is to be adjusted into the dotted position 5%. Further, a handle 60 (FIG. 3) is, in a given case, to be set, corresponding to the number of orders to the right of the decimal point to be struck off, and to put into action the machine by depressing the multiplication key 23 (PEG. 2).. 
 By setting the rounding off lever 59 in the position 5d a. connecting rod 63 linked to-a pin 64 at its lower end will be moved downwards at the right end by means of a link 61 and a connecting pin 6?. whereby a projection 65 of the rod arrives at the position 65 moving behind the already mentioned pin 36. The connecting rod 63 is linked by means of the pin 64 to a latch 66, which is connected with a lever plate 63 by a pin 67 and cooperates by means of a lug 69 with the restoring bar 16. 
 The lever plate 63 is loosely mounted on a shaft 78 and is influenced by a spring 71. 
 When the restoring bar 16, on its movement to the right, attains the position 16' and displaces the lever 38 to the right the pin 36 carries the projection 65 preadjusted in the position 65' along to the position 65", so that the connecting rod 63 counter clockwise lifts the latch 66 about its pin 67 bringing the lug 69 into the position 69' in the path of the restoring bar 16. In this specified position the latch 66 is held by a locking lever 72 loosely mounted on a pin 73 of the lever plate 68 and urged by a spring 74, the free right end of the locking lever 72 being placed before the raised pin 64 in the position 64'. On the return movement of the restoring bar 16 into the normal position at the end of the multiplying operation the lug 69 will be struck by the restoring bar and the lever plate 63 will be rocked to the left, whereat the pin 67 arrives at the position 67. By the rocking of the lever plate 68 the latch 66 will be pressed in its normal position by the restoring bar, so that, after the lever plate 63 has fallen backwards into its illustrated normal position the lug 6% of the latch 66 again is placed out of the path of the restoring bar. 
Controlling Operations by the Rocking to the Left of the Lever Plate at the End of the Multiplying Operation By this rocking to the left of the lever plate 68 at the end of the multiplying operation, now, the control operations required for the rounding off and the rectification of the denominational position are brought about. The mentioned handle 60 (FIG. 3) for the setting of the denominations to be rounded ofi is connected with a setplate 75 which is provided with a locking edge 76 cooperating with the actuating racks I. Said locking edge is provided with a recess 77, the depth of which corresponds to five actuation units. At its right end the plate 75 is provided with four steps 78 of equal height. 
 The setplate '75 is rockably and shiftably mounted on a stationary mounted cross rod 80 by means of supporting arms 79. 
 On the same cross rod dil arms 81 are secured which .at their left ends carry a rod 82 (FIG. 2), which, by means of a link 83., a two armed lever $5 loosely mounted on a stationary pin 84 and a link 86 is connected with said lever plate 68, by a pin 87. A sheet metal strip 88 issecurcd to and bent about the rod 82, which guides in its free ends a locking bolt 89, which is pressed against the setplate 75 by the action of a spring as and can enter holes 91 (FIG. 3) in order to yieldingly hold the plate in one of its four shifting positions. In each of the shifting positions the recess 77 is placed above one of the four right hand actuating racks 1, one of the four steps 78 being, at the same time, adjusted in the path of a finger 2. 
The finger 92 is a part of a step controlling organ in d l the form of an actuating rod 93 (FIG. 2) which is longitudinally shiitable by means of a slot 94 on the cross rod 8i) and guided, at its right end, by a link 65, which is connected with the actuating rod 93 by means of a pin 96 and with its other end attached to a pin 97. 
 The actuating rod 93 is provided at the middle and at the right end each with a ratched gearing 98 or 99, respectively. It is urged, by a spring 166 at its right end to the right and is usually locked against a movement to the right by the engagement of a bent over ear Till into the ratched gearing 98. The object of the actuating rod 93, together with the set plate is to control the shifting of the totalizer slide into the decimal point right position after the rounding off has been accomplished. 
 The actuating racks 1 are provided on their lower side at the left end with locking noses 102 (FIG. 2), be hind which the locking edge 76 is moved when, after the termination of the multiplication, the lever plate 68 will be rocked to the left by the restoring bar 16. When during the striking oft cycle of operation, subsequently to the multiplying operation, the restoring rod 16 will be moved again to the right, the actuating racks 1 with the exception of those over which the recess 77 (FIG. 3) is placed, cannot follow the'pull of their springs 15 (FIG. 2) as they are retained by the locking edge 76 by means of their locking noses 102. The actuating rack 1 situated vertically above the recess 77 is enabled to be displaced under the action of its spring 15 (FIG. 2) by five actuation units and to actuate correspondingly the multiplying mechanism, sothat on the following single striking ofi revolution of the multiplying mechanism five units being added to the corresponding denomination of the main totalizer; 
 1n the right hand side position of the setplate 75 in FIG. '3, in which the finger 92 is placed opposite the outermost left step 78 and the handle 66 is in the position 1, one denomination is to be rounded off. When two denominations have to be rounded off, the handle 66 is to be adjusted into the position 2 and so on. A setting position 0 for the handle 60 and the plate 75 need not be provided for as, if no denomination shall be rounded off, the rounding off setting'lever 59 (FIG. 2) will not be set and therefore a rounding ofl cycle of operation subsequently to the multiplying operation does not take place. 
 t will be apparent, that in this manner, the denomination to which on rounding ofi five units will be trans mitted is struck 01? too and therefore always the 'five units will be added to the highest denomination to be struck ofi. 
 By the rocking to the left of the lever plate 68 (FIG. 2) at the end of the multiplying operation the following changes being made: 
 (1) The lever plate 63 will be locked in its left hand position; 
 (2) The actuatingrod 93 will be moved into a preparation position for the control of the slide shifting; 
 (3) The actuating racks 1 will be locked for the performing of the rounding off; 
(4) The restoring bar coupling 29 will be engaged; 
 (5) The engagement of the multiplying mechanism for the rounding ofi cycle of operation in the position 16' of the restoring bar will be prepared through the restoring bar drive; 
(6) The engaging of the slide shifting will be prepared by means of the multiplying mechanism coupling; 7 
 (7) The disengaging of the revolution counting mechanism will be prepared for the rounding off cycle operatron. 
 To (1) A pin 163 is secured to the lever plate 68 (FIG. 2) which on the rocking of the lever plate to the left, moves into the position 163 thereby clockwise rocking two levers 194, 165 about their joint stationary pivot 163, said levers 164, 165 having angle shaped arms and being under the action of springs 106, 107. The 
amass? 9 lever 165 is moved with a notch 1119 over the pin 193 assuming the position 163 locking the lever plate 63 in its left position. 
 To (2) The lever we will be moved by lifting the pin 103, thus that the above mentioned bent over car 161 mounted on the lever 104 attains the position 1M freeing the actuating rod 93 for the movement to the right, so that the rod 93 will be moved with its finger 92 onto the step 78 (FIG. 3) of the set plate 75 being in its path, moving to the right by one to four pitches of the ratchet gearings '98, 99 (FIG. 2) according to the lateral adjustment of the set plate 75. 
 To (3) As described above, by the rocking to the left of the leverplate 63 (FIG. 2) the setplate 75 will be rocked into its locking position 75', in which it looks all actuating racks, with exception of that which is placed above the recess 77 (FIG. 3) of the setplate. 
 To (4) in order to engage the restoring bar coupling 29 (FIG. 5) for the purpose of moving the restoring bar 16 into the position 16 for transmitting the five rounding off units to the multiplying mechanism and of rocking the leverplate 63 (FIG. 2) to the left the latter is linked to a connecting rod 111 by means of a pivot 110 (FIG. 2), which at its other end is shiftably mounted on a stationary pin 113 by means of a slot 112 and cooperates by means of a finger 114 with the locking lever 52 for the restoring bar coupling 29, said locking finger being mounted on the locking lever axle as. The upper arm of the locking lever 52 looks, as already mentioned, with its lug 51 usually the stop lever 46 for the restoring bar coupling 29, which stop lever 46 is mounted on the axle &5 (FIG. 6). 
 When the lever plate 68 (FIG. 2) is rocked to the left the stop lever 46 will be released from the locking lever 52 through the connecting rod 111, so that immediately thereupon the restoring bar coupling will be engaged, the restoring bar 16 will be moved to the right into the position 16, and will be stopped in this position by the stop lever 250 which strikes against the coupling pawl 42. Thereby the actuating rack which is placed above the recess 7 of the setplate 75 transmits five units to the multiplying mechanism, whilst the other actuating racks will be retained by the locking mechanism 76, 102. 
 To (5) For the rounding off operation the multiplying mechanism is not put into action such as on multiplication by the multiplier 11 but by an additional mechanism. In order to put into action the multiplying mechanism when the restoring bar in the course of the rounding off cycle of operations has attained its position 16', the lever plate 68 has rigidly connected thereto over a connecting rod 115 (P16. 2) and a slotp'late 116 (FIG. 7), likewise mounted on the shaft '70, in the slot 117 of which engages a pin 11% of a lever 12%. The lever 126 is loosely mounted on a stationary pivot 119 and its right end, on rocking of the lever plate 63 (FIG. 2) to the left by means of a pin 121, lifts a push rod 122 with a lug 123 into the region of a bent over lug 124 (FIG. 6) of the already mentioned locking lever 95 for the stop lever 47 of the multiplying mechanism. 
 The push rod 122 (FIG. 6) is linked by means of a pin 255 to a two armed lever 126, mounted on a stationary pivot 125. Said two armed lever 126 will be rocked, in a manner explained below, when the restoring bar arrives at the position 16' in order to release the multiplying coupling. 
1 To (6) When, during the striking off cycle of operation, the restoring bar attains the position 16' it strikes against a nose 134 (FIG. 2) of a pawl 13% urged by a spring 133 and linked by means of a pivot 131 to a lever 132 loosely mounted on the pivot 1%. Into a triangular opening 129 of the pawl 130 engages a pin 12% of the lever 105'. When struck the pawl 130 causes clockwise rocking of the lever 132 about the bearing pin 1%. Thereby, a link 136 connected with the lever 132 by means of a pin, will be shifted to the right, said link 136 being connected with a two armed lever 137 by means of a pin 133. The lever 137 is mounted on the locking lever axle 49 and carries at its other end the already mentioned pin 97 which moves, on shifting the lever 132 to the right, into the position 97 causing thereby transpositions serving for the totalizer slide shifting as will be described below. 
 To (7) The movement of the nose 134 (FIG. 2) of the pawl 139 into the path of the restoring bar 16 simultaneously represents a preparation for the disconnection of the actuation of the revolution counter 12 during the rounding ofi operation. For this purpose, the mentioned pivot 131 cooperates with a link 13!) (FIG. 6) in a manner described below. 
Operations on Arriving of the Restoring Bar at the Stroke End Position During the Rounding Ofi Cycle of Operation When the restoring bar 16 after the engagement of the restoring bar coupling 29 (FIG. 6) caused by the rocking of the lever plate 63 (FIG. 2) to the left arrives at the position 16' (FIG. 2), a pin 14% (FIG. 6) acts on the upper arm 141 of the lever 126, whereby the push rod 122 lifted by the rocking of the leverplate 68 will be moved to the left, so that its lug 123, in the preparation position 123', strikes the bent over lug 124 and rocks clockwise the locking lever 55, whereby the stop lever 47 will be released for a rocking to the right and the multiplying mcchanism coupling 32 will be put into action, however, but for one revolution. This coupling, namely, is provided with a tensioning cam 142, which acts, at the end of a revolution on a roller 14 3 rotatably mounted on the stop lever t? returning the stop lever 47 into its normal position so that the coupling pawl 43 runs up on it disengaging the multiplying mechanism coupling. At the same time the left end of the stop lever 47 again moves below the lug 54 of its locking lever 55, in order to lock the stop lever 47 in its stop position. 
 When the restoring bar 16 arrives at their outermost position to the right 16 it further displaces, as already explained above, the pivot 97 (FIG. 2) into the position 97". By lifting the pivot 97 the actuating rod 93 will be lifted at its right end over the link whereby the ratchet gearing likewise will be lifted arriving at the position 99. 
 On the pivot 97 a three armed lever 145, urged by a spring i -i4, is rotatably mounted, the upper arm of which, on the movement of the pivot 97 into the position 97, puts on a rod 146 of a two armed lever 148 rotatably mounted on a stationary pivot 147. This lever 14-8 cooperates by means of a roller located at its upper end likewise with the tensioning earn of the multiplying mechanism coupling 32. 
 The stop lever 4% (FIG. 5) for the slide shifting coupling 33 rotatably mounted on the stop lever shaft 45 is locked, as already described, in the represented stop position by a lug 57 of the locking lever 58 of the shaft 49. The locking lever 53 is provided with an arm 150 carrying a lateral pin 151. Below this pin 1'51 (FIG. 2) an aim 152 of the three armed lever 145 extends. When now the bar 14-6, with which the upper arm of the lever 145 has come in contact, is moved to the right by the tension earn 142 of the multiplying mechanism coupling, the lever 145 will be rocked clockwise about the pivot 97 being in the position 97', so that its left arm 152 lifts the pin 151 of the locking lever 58 (FIG. 5) rocking the latter clockwise, so that the stop lever 48 will be freed from the lug 57 and accomplishes a clockwise rocking by which the slide shifting coupling 33 will be disengaged at the end of the one revolution of the multiplying mechanism. 
 Simultaneously with the shifting of the pawl 13% to the right caused by the restoring bar 16 on arriving at the position 16 (FIG. 2) the lever 105 will be clockwise rocked by striking upon the left wall of the recess 129 against the pin 128. Thereby the notch 1499 of the lever 105 frees the pin 103 of the lever plate 68, so that the latter can move again into its right normal position under the action of its spring '71. At the same time, also the lever 1114- Will be released from the pin 103 so that its bent over car 1131 again engages the ratchet gearing 98 locking the actuating :rod 93 against a return movement to the right, when it will be stepwise moved to the left by the mechanism described further below. 
Shifting of the Totalizer Slide to the Right The three armed lever 145 (FIG. 2) is provided with an upturned car 153 cooperating with a notch 154 of a lever 155 loosely mounted on the shaft 49 and urged by the spring 144. The lower arm 156 of the lever 155 puts, in the normal position of the link 95 illustrated in FIG. 2, on a pin 157 of .the link 95 sothat the notch 154 of the lever 155 usually is prevented from moving below the upturned ear 153 when the latter has been lifted by rocking of the lever 145. By moving, now, the stop actuating rod 93 onto one of-the steps 78 (-FIG. 3) and by moving the pivot 97 (FIG. 2) into the position 97, the pin 157 will be remoted from the arm 156 so that the notch 154, now, is enabled to move below the car 153 when it is lifted at the end of the multiplication revolution by the tension cam 142, 
 The lever 145 and therewith over the pin 151 also the locking lever 58 (FIG. remain locked in their rocking positionto the right by the locking 153, 154, so that the slide shifting coupling can rotate until this locking will be terminated. 
 The driven part of the slide shifting coupling 33 (FIG. 6) engages into a toothed wheel 158 of a shaft 159, on which a helically formed rib 160 (FIG. 3) is secured engaging a toothed rack 161 of the totalizer slide 5, shifting the totalizer slide on each revolution of the shaft 159 by one denominational space. 
 The shaft 34 (FIG. 3) of the slide shifting coupling 33 is provided with a disc 162 FIG. 2, carrying a pin 163 cooperating with the upper arm 164 of a two armed lever 165 rotatably mounted on the pivot 147. To the lower arm 166 of the lever 165 is linked an actuating pawl 168 by means of a pivot 167 which together with the lever 165, is urged by a spring 169. The rocking of the pawl 168 on the arm 166 is limited by a pin 170 entering a bore of the arm 166. The actuating pawl 168 cooperates by means of an upturned lug 171 with the above mentioned ratchet gearing 99 of the step actuating rod 93, the gearing 99 being in the position designated with 99. On each revolution of the shaft 34, therefore, not only the totalizer slide will be moved to the right by one step, but at the same time also the actuating rod 93 will be displaced by one step to the left by the engagement of the upturned lug 171 into the ratched gearing 99, whereby the bent over ear 101 of the released lever 184 cooperates with the ratchet gearing 98 of the actuating rod acting as a retrograde pawl. 
 On the continued step movement of the rod 93 to the left the pin 157 approaches again step-wise the arm 156 and turns clockwise the lever 155 during the last step, by which the actuating rod 93 on the movement onto the adjusted step 78 (FIG. 3) had been displaced so that the locking 153, 154 (FIG. 2) will be again terminated, the pin 151 and the locking lever 58 (FIG. 5) being re leased for a clockwise movement. Now, the locking lever 58 can move with its notch 57 below the arm 56 of the stop lever 48 when the tensioning cam 172 provided at the slide shifting coupling 33, by means of a roller 173, has pushed back the stop lever 48 into the stop position represented in FIG. 5. 
 During the last step of the back movement directed to the left of the actuating rod 93 (FIG. 2) also a finger 17d rigidly connected with the link 95 strikes an upturned lug 175 of the locking lever 252 (FIG. 3) for the restoring rod coupling 29 which until now has been retained in its 180 turning position corresponding to the position of the restoring bar and rocks clockwise the locking lever 252 so that its lug releases the stop lever 250 (FIG. 6) for the restoring bar coupling 29 enabling it to perform the second half of its revolution on which the restoring bar 16 will be returned into its normal position. 
 At the end of this movement a tension cam 176 (FIG. 6) of this coupling rocks back the stop lever 46 clockwise through a roller 177, so that the stop lever again puts its left arm against the lug 51 of the locking lever 59 whereby the restoring bar coupling will be disengaged. 
 Therewith the rounding off cycle of operation has been performed under simultaneous striking off of decimal orders, addition of five units in the highest denomination struck off and the movement of the totalizer slide from its normal position to the right according to the number of denominations struck oif, so that the main totalizer being kept ready in the correct denominational position for the transmission of its value to the printing mechanism, auxiliary totalizers or storing devices or back onto the multiplying mechanism. 
Switching 0/? '01 the Revolution Counting Mechanism During the rounding off cycle of operation the revolution counter must be inactive in order to avoid that it will be actuated by one unit during this cycle of operation according to the one revolution of the multiplying mechanism, since this revolution nothing has to do with the multiplier. The addition of one unity on each revolution of the multiplying mechanism 3 (FIG. 1) the revolution counter 12 is connected to the toothed wheel 178 (FIG. 6) engaging the driven part of the multiplying coupling 32. The toothed wheel 178 turns a Where] 181 provided with an eccentric pin over an intermediate wheel 179. This wheel is secured to the already mentioned driving shaft 279 for the multiplier mechanism. 
 The eccentric pin 180 is connected by means of a link 182 with a push fork 183 which is guided by means of a pin 185, engaging a slot 186 of a change over le'ver 137 and by means of a link 184 loosely mounted on a stationary pivot. This push fork 183 cooperates by means of actuating lugs 188, 189 with a drive wheel 190 which is stationarily unslidably but rotatably mounted and nonrotatably connected with a slidable square axle 280 (FIGS. 6 and 3), on which an actuating wheel 281 is secured which can be brought into mesh with the different counting wheels 282 of the revolution counter by shifting the axle 280. This axle is connected with the totalizer slide 5 (FIG. 3) over a two armed lever 284 mounted on a fixed pin 283 and over pins 285 and 286 in such a way that on the shifting of the totalizer slide 5 on engagement of the slide shifting coupling 33 (FIG. 5) and on shifting of the totalizer slide 5 the actuating wheel 28 1 (FIG. 3) performs a corresponding shifting and the respective counting wheels 282 will be rotated by a number of actuating units corresponding to the number of revolutions of the multiplying mechanism. 
 In the middle position of the push fork illustrated in FIG. 6 the drive wheel 190 will be left uninfluenced by the oscillating movement of the push fork. When the push fork 183 is held, on its oscillating movement, in its left position an actuating lug 189 becomes effective, whereat the counting wheel 191 will be additively turned, whilst, on the adjustment of the push fork 183 in the right hand rocked position the actuating lug effects a subtractive further actuating of the counting wheel 191 being in mesh. 
 The change over from additive to subtractive actuation and vice versa will be effected by means of rocking of the change over lever 187 about its pivot 192 being brought about by a set plate 193 pivotally mounted on the pivot 192. 
, During the striking off cycle of operation, now, the push fork 183 will be moved into the represented inefficient middle position and being held therein by coming into contact of two setting edges 197 of a slide 198 with two pins 194 and 195 being located above or below of 13 the pivot 196 of the push fork 183, 134 andon the latter. The slide 198 being guided by means ofa slot 199 on a stationary pivot Ziit) and by means of a lever 2H2 rotatably mounted on a stationary pivot 201. The lever 202 is connected to an arm 204, mounted on a stationary pivot 203 by means of the above mentioned link 139. The link 139 cooperates, as described, with the pivot 131 of the lever 132 (FIG. 2) to which the pawl 130 is attached. As long as the pivot 131 (FIG. 6) is in its left normal position the setting edges 197 are out of mesh with the pins 194, 195 whereby the push fork 183 can be freely adjusted into its left or right locking position. When, 
a finger 2G5 being in the normal position of the link 139 incontact with a stationary pivot 206. 
What I claimlis: V 
 1'. In a calculating machine for computing and print ing products of the class described with a shiftable'main totalizer, stationary a'uxniary 'totali'ze'rs and a printing mechanism, a multiplying mechanism, differential actuating racks cooperating with said totalizers, said printing mechanism and said multiplying mechanism having means for rounding off a number of orders at the right of the product including means for adding five units to the highest order to be rounded otf, a setting means for adjusting the number of orders to be rounded off, means for automatically initiating a particular cycle of operation for rounding off following the computing of the product, means for laterally shifting said main totalizer with respect to said differential actuating racks from its normal position, in which its lowermost order registers with the differential actuating rack of the lowermost order, stepwise to the right and back into said normal position, means for automatically controlling, during said particular cycle of operation: first, said means for adding five units in the normal position of the main totalizer, secondly, said main totalizer shifting means for shifting the main totalizer to the right by a number of orders to be rounded oif, thirdly said differential actuator racks for transmitting the rounded off value from said main totalizer by means of said actuating racks to said printing mechanism and said multiplying mechanism. 
 in a mechanism according to claim 1, an oscillating restoring bar for said actuating racks performing a forward and a backward stroke, drive means for said multiplying mechanism, a revolution counter ordinally indicating the number of revolutions of said multiplying mechanism, and operative connections between said restoring bar, on the one hand, and said means for initiating said rounding off cycle of operation, said driving means for said multiplying mechanism, said revolution counter and said shifting means for said main totalizer to the right, on the other hand, means for rendering effeetive said operative connections on arriving of said restoring bar at its forward stroke end position, whereby said rounding 01f cycle of operation, said driving means for said multiplying mechanism will be engaged, said revolution counter will be disengaged and said main totalizer shifting will be prepared. 
, 3. In a mechanism according to claim 1, a lever plate, 
an oscillating restoring bar performing a forward and a backward stroke for rocking said leverplate into an operative position at the end of its forward stroke, a multiplying mechanism driving coupling, a stop lever therefor, a push rod cooperating therewith and being adapted to release it, a restoring bar driving coupling, a pin revolving therewith adapted to actuate said push rod for releasing said stop lever at the end of the first half of revolution of the restoring bar coupling and a tensioning cam connected with said multiplying mechanism coupling adapted to bring back said stop lever into its stop position at the end of the one revolution of the multiplying mechanism. 6 
 4. In a mechanism according to claim 1, said means for rounding off comprising a set plate transversely shiftable with respect to said actuating racks, said plate having a locking edge for locking said actuating racks in their normal position, a recess provided in said locking edge for freeing the movement of one of the actuating rack-s by five actuation units, stepped lugs integral with said set plate, an actuating rod cooperating therewith, operative connections between it and said means for shifting said main totalizer to the right in dependence on the cooperation of said actuating rod with said set plate. 
 5. In a mechanism according to claim 1, an oscillating restoring bar for said actuating racks performing a forward and a backward stroke, a leverplate cooperating therewith, a set plate for rounding off having stepped lugs, a stepwise movable actuating rod forcontrolling the shifting of the main totalizer into its normal position after rounding off'cooperating with said stepped lugs, a coupling for the drive of the restoring bar, a revolution counter, a drive coupling for the main shifting of the totalizer, and operative connections between said lever plat-e,--on the one-hand; and said set plate, said actuating rod, said restoring bar, said restoring bar coupling, said revolution counter, and said main totalizer shifting coupling on the other hand, whereby, at the end of the multiplying operation, the lever plate being displaced by said restoring bar locking itself in its displaced position, and causing said actuating racks to be locked by said set plate in their normal position, said restoring bar coupling to be engaged, said actuating rod to be moved onto said stepped lugs, the engagement of said totalizer shifting coupling and the disengagement of the actuation of the revolution counter to be prepared. 
 6. Mechanism according to claim I, an oscillating restoring bar for said actuating racks performing a forward and a backward stroke, a lever plate rockable from a normal position to an operative position, a pawl rockably mounted on said lever plate having a lug cooperating with said restoring bar and being operatively connected with said means for rounding off, whereby on rounding off and in the stroke end position of the restoring bar said lug will be placed into the path of the restoring bar, by said rounding off means, carrying, when struck by the restoring bar, said leverplate along into its operative position. 
 7. in a mechanism according to claim 1, said means for automatically shifting said main totalizer comprising a spring urged actuating rod, a set plate having stepped lugs, a finger integral with said actuating rod for sensing said stepped lugs, two ratchet gearings on said actuating rod, a retrograde pawl cooperating with one of said ratchet geariugs being operatively connected with said restoring bar, an actuating pawl cooperating with the other ratchet gearing being operatively connected with said multiplying mechanism, means for disengaging said multiplying mechanism, whereby on rounding off after said actuating rod has been sensed said stepped lugs, said actuating rod will be stepwise returned to its normal position on each shifting step of said totalizer till the totalizer assumes its normal position. 
 8. In a mechanism according to claim 1, a multiplying mechanism coupling, a main totalizer shifting coupling, said means for automatically shifting said main totalizer comprising an actuating rod controlling the shifting of the main totalizer to the right after rounding off, means for disengaging said multiplying mechanism coupling at the end of the single revolution of the rounding oif operation, means for engaging the main totalizer shifting coupling at the end of said single revolution, a locking means for maintaining said engaging of the main totalizer shifting coupling, and a locking device for securing the 15 coupling in its engaged state, operative connections between said locking means and said actuating rod whereby said locking device will be released on arriving of said actuating rod at its normal position. 
 9. In a mechanism according to claim 1, said means for automatically shifting said .main totalizer to the right after rounding ofl? comprising an actuating rod, an actuating pawl cooperating therewith, a main 'totalizer shifting coupling having a revolving pin, a lever mountingsaid actuating pawl, a multiplying mechanism coupling having a tensioning cam effecting the engagement'of said to'talizer shifting coupling, a locking device maintaining the "engagement of this coupling, an oscillating restoring barfor said actuator racks performing a vforward and a backward stroke, a three armed lever cooperating with said locking device, whereby the engagement of "the main totalizer slide coupling being effected by .said restoring bar on arriving at its stroke end position and the releasing of said locking device being effected by (displacing said three armed lever. v 
 10. In a mechanism according to claim 1 saidmeansifor automatically shifting said main totalizer comprising a spring urged actuating rod, a=-mnltiplying mechanism coupling, a tensioning cam thereof, a totalizer shifting coupling, a locking device for securing the engagement 5 coupling, said locking device comprising a locking lugv and a locking lever, a three armed lever carrying said locking lug, a link attached to said actuating rod cooperating with said locking lever, whereby said locking device being disengaged in the normal position of said actusting rod by the 'actionof said link onto said locking lever. '11. In a-m'ech'anism according to claim 1, a revolution counter, means for actuating it by one unit on each revolution 'of said multiplying mechanism, comprising a push fork having a rocking pivot and acting for additive or subtractive actuation 'accordingto its rocking to the one or the other side of its inactive middle position, a slide having a set edge, two vlugs on said push fork situated above and below of said rocking pivot, a restoring bar, operative connections between it and said slide, whereby on arriving of said restoring bar at the end of its forward stroke said *slide'will be moved onto said lugs of the. push :for-k rocking it into its inactive middle position. 
References Cited in the file of this patent UNIT-ED STATES PATENTS Re. 22,947 Clary et 'al Dec. 9, i947 1,802,974 G'ooch et a1. e- Apr. 28, '19s 1 1,950,133 Kottrnan e. Mar. 6, 1934 2,833,467 Christoif'et at. May '6, 195s