Business transaction apparatus 
US-3705384-A
Eric C Wahlberg
1972-12-05
https://patents.google.com/patent/US3705384A/en
2sa-ss1 anus], 7, 1 .9119 3970593 9 United tates Fatent i 1151 3,7e5384 Waiiiherg 1 'Bec. 5, 1972 1541 BUSINESS TRANSAQTEON APPARATUS 3,445,633 5/1969 Ratner ..340/149 inventor: ric C. wa lb g S Karp Stamford, Conn 06905 3,564,132 2/1971 Baker ..340/l49 X 3,622,995 11/1971 Dilks et al ..340/l49 X {221 Filedz Aug. 10,1971 
 Primary Examiner-Donald J. Yusko :7 {21] Appl' Attorney-Arnold B. Christen et al. 
Related Applicatien Data 7] ABSTRACT [63] Continuation-impart of Ser. No. 884,620, Dec. 12, v k 
19 9, abandone A multiple transact10n business machine is provided which includes means for selecting a plurality of [52] US. Cl ..30/ 149, l94/DIG. 6, 194/1316. 8, transactions, totaling the cost of such transactions and l94/DIG. 9, 235/61 .7 3, 340/147 A, 349/153 determining the value of payment tendered in satisfac- 51 int. (:1 .;.Gn7r7/112, r104 1/00 Iion the 99st of the iranswions y p y [58] Field of Search .....340/149, 153, 147 A; evaluating means receiving legal tender, Credit media 235/617 B, 61.9; 194/D1G. 6, DEG. 7, Dig and negotiable instruments from the purchaser in 8 D169, D1614 tender of satisfaction of the cost of the transactions selected, as well as means for validating the credit [56] Reieremes Cited media and negotiable instruments presented and means for validating the identity of the purchaser. The UNlTED STATES PATENTS machine issues tickets and the like in response to reselection of various modes of trans ortation, 2,970,877 2/1961 Parsons ..235/61.7B p p acka e mailin and handlin", etc. A remote data link 3,039,582 6/1962 Stm nan ..235/61.7 3 purposf of Credit avzflabimy verification- 3,039,086 6ll92 Bell IRS/151.33 purchaser identity is also provided together with 12/ wahlberg 35/1313? X remote control, intercom and live identification 3,330,947 7/1967 Alpert ..235/92 media 3,340,978 9/1967 Haville ..340/ l49 3,356,992 12/1967 Ptacek et al ..340/149 14 claims, is Brewing Figures PAEHTEE BEE 5 I972 SHEET UQOF 1O EUSENESS TRANSACTION APPARATUS This is a continuation-in-part application of my earlier application Ser. No. 884,620, tiled Dec. 12, 1969 now abandoned. 
 This invention relates to multiple transaction business machines and more particularly, to multiple transaction machines of the vending and remote control automatic transaction type wherein legal tender, credit mediaand/or negotiable instruments may all be tendered in satisfaction of the cost of one or a plurality of transactions. 
 in the present world of business transactions, there are a number of media by which payments are made. There is the cash or currency media commonly known as legal tender. There is the negotiable instrument media including money orders, personal checks and the like. There is also the credit media such as the common credit cards now in use by'credit groups, gasoline companies and the like. 
 When legal tender is utilized in payment of transactions conducted through automatic business machines the change making for such legal tender is a definite problem as is the determination of whether such legal tender presented in satisfaction of the cost of the transaction is valid tender. 
 in negotiable instruments and credit media the problem of identification of the credit media presented or the negotiable instrument presented as well as the identity of the presenting purchaser are facts which must be verified in order to be certain that valid credit media and/or negotiable instruments have been tendered in satisfaction ofthe total cost of the transaction or transactions being conducted. 
 Because of the wide variety of commercial instruments which are now acceptable in the tender of payment for business-transactions, there is and has been a need in the art of business transaction apparatus for such apparatus having a plurality of classes of business transactions available, such as vending, mailing, banking, ticket issuing, and others, and where within each of theseclasses'a plurality of species of transactions can be made. For example, in the class of vending transactions, a wide variety of selected items may readily be chosen, one or more suitable commercial cost satisfying media presented to the machine, the cost of the total transaction totalized and compared to the value. of the commercial media presented and the items subsequently dispensed, with requisite change. .By the same token, such a class of transaction as the securing of reservations and tickets for a mode of transportation or the delivery of a package through parcel post or other mailing media could be chosen and the cost thereof totaled and satisfied in the same manner. 7 
 The present invention to be hereinafter more fully described illustrates a preferred embodiment wherein a number of classes of transactions are served by a single installation, such classes being those of vending, mailing, banking, transportation, etc. This invention provides either a fully automated method of presenting a receiving payment by the insertion of commercial payment satisfaction media into validating and various value establishing mechanisms or, alternatively, the presentation of commercial payment media to the scrutiny of validating and value establishing personnel which may be located at a location completely remote from the vending and transacting installation. 
 All of the transactions of the present invention may be monitored remotely for security reasons or for purchaser convenience. Apparatus of the present inapparatus for serving a multiplicity of business transaction purposes and whichis capable of receiving payment in any acceptable commercial media for completionof a selected transaction or transactions under optimized security conditions. 
Another object of the present invention is to provide a new and novel multiple transaction business machine which will accept credit media and/or negotiable instruments tendered in satisfaction of the cost of a transaction or transactions and substantially preclude fraululent usage of said credit media and negotiable instruments. 
 Another object of the present invention is to provide a new and novel multiple transaction business machine which will accept credit media and/or negotiable instruments tendered in satisfaction of the cost of a transaction or transactions and substantially preclude fraululent usage of said credit media and negotiable instruments; and wherein verification of identity of the purchaser tendering such credit media and/or negotiable instruments is a condition precedent to the completion of a given transaction. 
 Still another object of the present invention is to provide a new and novel multiple transaction business machine having new and novel remote data link and control means including line of credit and account verification means. 
 Yet another object of the present invention is to pro vide a new and novel transportation reservation making, ticket printing and vending device which will accept currency, valid credit media and valid negotiable instruments in tender of satisfaction of the cost of the reservation. 
 These and other objects of the present invention will become more fully apparent with reference to the following specification and drawings which relate to a preferred embodiment of the invention. 
IN THE DRAWINGS along lines 5--5 of FIG. 3; 
 FIG. 6 is a cross section taken along lines 6-6 of FIG. 5; 
 FIG. 7 is perspective of an installation of the present invention including a remote monitoring and control center as used in conjunction with credit media presentation and validation, negotiable instrument presentation and validation and large domestic and foreign tender handling as well as surveilance handling, 
procedures; 
 FIG. Sis a fragmentary front plane view of a transportation ticket vending section of the machine complex of FIG. 7; 
 FIG. 9 is a cross sectional view taken on line 9-9 of FIG. 8 illustrating the ticket issuing and printing device in schematic form; 
 FIG. 10 is block diagram of the interrelated components and functional building blocks comprising the present invention; 
 FIG. 11, 11A, 12, 12A, 13 and 13A are circuit diagrams comprising the calculating money handling, legal tender handling, negotiable instrument handling and credit media handling mechanisms of the present invention. 
 Referring in detail to the drawings, the bulk of the apparatus and circuitry illustrated in FIGS. 1, 10, 11, 11A, 12, 12A, 13 and 13A are disclosed in applicants prior US. Pat. Nos. 3,397,763 issued Aug. 2O, I968 and 3,45 l ,5 l 7 issued June 24, 1969. The disclosures of these patents, together with other patents of applicant, namely, U.S. Pat. 3,415,348 issued Dec. 10, 1968, 3,290,491 issued Dec. 6, 1966, and 3,451,519 issued June 24, 1969, are all incorporated by reference herein in that they illustrate and disclose the money changing, money receiving and totalizing, automatic package handling, item issuing means and circuits illustrated in connection with the present invention. 
 The present invention is directed to means for correlating the individual inventions contained in the above referenced prior patents of applicant, enlarging upon their versatility of transaction to be conducted, providing them with means for receiving, validating, and otherwise cooroborating credit media, negotiable instruments and the like, together with a new and novel transportation ticket vending and printing means and remote control credit limit indications and monitoring devices for checking the validity of the identity of the purchaser as well as the media tendered by the purchaser in satisfaction of the cost of the transaction or transactionsto be performed by the present inventron. 
 Before discussing the drawings in further detail, it is informative at this time to consider the type of credit media contemplated for use in the present invention. One form of such credit media is the popular credit card. On this card is placed the name of thebearer and his account identification either by embossing, 
punching, magnetically treating or various combinations of these methods to provide identification of the account to which any charge should be made by the vendor. The embossed card is in general use and conventionally serves as a print plate for recording card information 'onto a record voucher for billing purposes and acknowledgment of receipt of goods or services. 
Some credit cards may also incorporate on the face thereof a picture of the valid credit card holder or a place for the signature of the holder or both. This provides a method of quick'verification of the validity of the holder of the card. 
 In addition to identification, the credit card may be coded with various information including the limit of credit to be extended to the bearer. This information is read by checking devices which generate signals from the coded information on the card. These signals may be inserted into the apparatus of the present invention as information to be used in the processing ofa transaction. This processing may involve the satisfaction of the cost generated by the choice of transactions to be completed. Further, these credit cards may be used in banks for deposits and withdrawls from accounts or payment of negotiable instruments. Again, these cards may serve as payment media for transportation on airlines, railroads and other modes of transportation. 
 With the foregoing general description of contemplated credit media in mind, the present invention will now be described in more detail. 
 Referring in detail to FIG. 1, the embodiment of the invention shown therein basically comprises a business transaction machine for conducting four basic classes of business transactions. The first class of transaction is that of vending selected items. The second class of transactions is a means for handling and transporting packages. The third class of transactions is banking. The fourth class of transactions is a ticket printing and vending machine for the selection of travel reservations and consequent printing and issuing of ticketed reservationstherefore. 
 A vending transaction module 10 of the present invention is shown as generally comprising a hinged transparent door section 10A or the like which provides for the display of articles offered for sale and a stationary support station 11 below the display area. A component compartment 12 with an opening 12A therein provides a means for gathering the components purchased as evidenced by the position of the component selector actuators S1, S2, etc., on the module 10. A second module 13 is provided adjacent the module 10 for holding the control circuitry and for receiving domestic currency and issuing change in satisfaction of the selected transaction. The front section of the second module 13 includes coin receptacle means 14 and currency receptacle means 15, comprising the legal tender receiving portion of the module 13, and an indicator 16 which shows the total cost of the purchase. There is also provided a change receptacle 17 including an opening 17A through which change from the transaction can be retrieved by the purchaser. There is further provided a receipt means 18 having an opening 18A therein through which'a purchaser may and comprises a recess in the face thereof with a front tending from a supplyroll 530 over idler roll 531 across the platen 551 to idler roller 552 and take-up roller 533, the latter being driven by a motor M10. Tape 534 xtends beneath a credit card presentation slot 582. in the credit card receiving means 535, former being adapted to receive a credit card 587. The tape extends from the signature slot 538 beneath the sloping surface and over the platen 551 and extends over a credit card impression head 547 which is adapted to extend through another slot in the writing surface to emboss or impress the tape with the indicia on the credit card 587' when it is in the slot 582 beneath the credit card holding means 535. The tape then passes over a print mechanism 554 to be hereinafter more fully described and thence to the take-up roll 533. 
 The tape S34 consists of two laminates and just after it passes over the print mechanism 554, the latter recording the nature of the transaction being conducted on the tape, the tape is separated to allow one of its laminates to pass through a receipt slot 589 and appear above the writing surface, whereby, the separated laminate'of the tape 534 serves as a credit representation receipt 550 as shown. 
 The credit card impression head 54-7 is located in the housing 650 beneath the platen 551i and is controlled by a solenoid 545, schematically shown, which is responsive to the circuitry of FIGS. 11 through 13A and actuated through linkages 548, schematically shown, mounted through cushioned connector means 546 to the housing 650. Solenoid 545 is energized in response to the above mentioned circuits whereby linkages 548 are straightened to provide a predetermined pressure between the bottom of the case 650 and the credit card or other credit media representation means 587 to leave a printed impression on the laminated tape 534 extending over the platen 551 from the supply rollcr 530. 
 The advance of the tape 534 is provided by the motor M in response to the action of the printing means 554 as is well known in the art. Any of the com mercial printing wheels which will respond to electrical signals from circuitry such as that referred to may be used to print information on treated tape in response to output signals. Thus, the print mechanism 554 is hereby disclosed as a conventional tape advance print mechanism responsive to electrical output signals from accounting and control circuitry. 
 As best shown in FIG. 2, the writing surface containing the signature slot 538 further includes a negotiable instrument and legal tender receiving slot 556, a credit representation switch 540, a legal tender and negotiable instrument switch 539, a reflector 536 overlying the second sloping area of the cabinet section 586 which is used in conjunction with the field of view of a closed circuit television camera 537 located in the cabinet and focused on the reflector 536. One side of the third module 580 has a hinge door 581 thereon to provide access to the negotiable instrument and legal tender receiving hoppers and receipt issuing mechanisms which are all located internally of the cabinet structure. 
 Adjacent to the legal tender and credit handling third module 580 on the face of the second module 13 is a selection keyboard for the parcel post mailing cost calculation and transaction module of the present invention. This keyboard consists of a plurality of pushbuttons 1910 on which any destination zip code can be registered, pushbuttons 1011 on which the zone of the destination may be registered if the zip. code is not known, and pushbuttons I012 on which the special services is desired to be applied to the transportation of the package may be registered. The above registering means actuate circuits which are shown herein in FIGS. ll-ISA and which are described in applicants prior US. Pat. No. 3,45l,5l9, US. Pat. No. 3,451,348, and US. Pat. No. 3,451,517 already incorporated by reference herein. 
 The closed circuit television camera 537 is shown in the upper section focused through an opening in the ceiling of the cabinet recess onto the mirror or reflector 536. The camera 537 will, by means of the mirror in the first sloping section, cover a maximum of area for surveillance and identification purposes of the purchaser. 
 Referring more specifically to H65. 5 and 6. the front sloping surface 560 of the third module 580 is shown as including a legal tender and negotiable instrument receiving slot 556 which is in registry with a pair of vertically disposed belts 5S7 cooperatively driven by a-rnotor M1 and a series of rollers 55). Motor M11 is responsible to the circuitry of FIGS. 12 and 12A. A photocell 558 is located at a distance below the sloping surface 560 of the cabinet module 580 in optical relation with a plurality of registered openingsGSi in the belts 557. The belts 557 are adapted to receive legal tender and/or negotiable instruments deposited in the receiving slot 556 and transmit same past the photocell 553, with predetermined portions of the negotiable instruments and legal tender exposed through the slots 651 in the belt to the perusal of the photocell 558. The belts 557, belt rollers 559, photocell 558 and motor M11 are all mounted on a support 563 which in turn is mounted in the third module 580 by a support 564. A hopper 562 is movably mounted to this support 563 beneath the throw of the belts 557 such that legal tender and negotiable instruments deposited into the receiving slot 556 and which later traverse the belts 557 are deposited into the hopper 562 in response to the control circuitry of FIGS. 12 and 12A. 
BUSINESS TRANSACTION MACHINE COMPLEX Referring now to MG. 7, a business transaction complex with a plurality of business transaction modules will be described for the purpose of illustrating the ultimate capabilities of the present invention. 
 A plurality of the modular unit combinations 1043-580 are shown as arranged in a plurality of aisles and rows in the provision of a complex of business transaction machines capable of performing a multitude of business transactions at a common point. As shown, an aisle 665 is provided between the various rows of modules which face inward on both sides of the said aisle. A service aisle 663 is provided between back to back rows of modules and is accessible from a storage area only. Servicing of the multiplicity of modules is accomplished through access doors 661 and 6.62 which face the service aisle 663. 
 The various modules 10, 10A, etc., are interconnected with a remote control station 600 by means of an information conduit 660 which contains the wiring for the various circuit connections of the present invention. The front of the service aisle is closed off to customer entrance for purposes of security. Remote stations 600 includes a monitor 601 which is suitably connected to a closed circuit television camera located in each of the modules 1040A, etc., and optically focused on the reflector 536 and the sloping shelf 560 of each of the cabinet modules 580 as previously described in connection with FIGS. 1 and 2. 
 Each of these closed circuit television stations is associated with an intercom system generally indicated at 602 which is selectively connected to the remote station 600. Selective control of the business transaction machines -10A, etc., is provided at the station 600, although it is not contemplated that the remote station will be necessary in all applications of the invention. It is only a desirable adjunct to the secure operation of a business transaction complex as shown. 
 When examining, remotely, the validity of both the customer and the credit representation, a control button 610 is provided at the remote station 600 whereby a non-operative constraint is removed from the circuitry of the present invention to be hereinafter more fully described, to permit the dispensing or completion of the business transaction to the purchaser. Furthermore, there is provided a plurality of control dials 604, 605, 606, and 607 at the remote station 600 such that the operator at the remote station can insert into the control circuitry of the present invention an agreed upon credit. A control button 609 is also provided at the remote station 600 to enter the credit setting into the payment evaluating and cost satisfying circuitry of the present invention. 
 A signal light 603 is also provided at the remote station 600 together with any suitable audible signal, if desired, to indicate to the operator at the remote station that a credit representation has been inserted in the credit receiving slot 582 for purposes of validation. As shown, a plurality of such signal lights representative of a particular business transaction machine in the complex are provided. 
TRANSPORTATION, RESERVATION, AND TICKETING APPARATUS Referring jointly to FIGS. 8 and 9, there is shown a transportation, reservation and ticketing apparatus specifically illustrated as an air line ticket vending purpose machine. This machine is shown as comprising a portion of the cabinet 580 previously described in connection with FIG. 1, said cabinet having an information input keyboard 1022 thereon divided into five groups, namely, a destination city group 1001, a flight number group 1002, a number of passengers group 1003, a type of travel group 1004, and a date of travel group 1005. 
The date of travel is divided, as required, into month,- 
day and year. There is further shown a flight schedule display screen 1007, cost and payment indicators 1008 and 1009, respectively, a ticket issue slot 1020, and an issued ticket receptacle 1021. This information input keyboard 1022 is shown located immediately adjacent the monitored credit media and negotiable instrument handling means in the cabinet 580, previously described. 
 The destination city portion 1001 of the keyboard consists of columns of switch keys 1001a 1001j and 1001-0 1001-9 which may be numbered to tie in with cities or may be designated as particular cities. 
If the keys are numbered there would be provided an index of the cities that are served together with their identification number. These numbers would be inserted into the apparatus according to the keys designated for the cities. If the keys are designated by city names, then they would need only be the pushing of the key of the designated city without correlation to a numbered list. Pressing of the destination keys 1001 will project flight schedules for the desired cities on the screen 1007. Included in the flight schedule are the various flight numbers with their departure and arrival times. The customer can thus choose his flight by registering the number designated for that flight on to the keyboard section 1002. The customer registers the number and type ofaccommodations by pushing the proper labeled keys and the number of passengers and class category sections of the keyboard 1003 and 1004, respectively. The desired date of the specified flight is registered in the machine by pressing the keys on the date of travel keyboard section 1005. 
 If the requested reservations are accepted by the reservation center (data storage) to which the information is automatically transmitted, the cost of the accommodations is reflected on the cost indicator 1008. Payment is made in any of the several ways offered by the unit, namely, legal tender, credit media, and/or negotiable instruments. When payment is satisfied. the ticket for the requested reservation is issued from the slot 1020 into the issued ticket receptacle 1021. 
 Behind the front wall of the cabinet 580, specifically referring now to FIG. 9, the ticket printing assembly cooperating with the ticket issue slot 1020 is schematically shown as comprising a ticket tape roll 1025 from which ticket tape 1029 is passed through a ticket printing mechanism 1023 by means of rollers 1024 driven by a motor 1026. A set ofcutting knives 1030 are positioned as well known in the art to cut the ticket tape 1029 at a predetermined point of travel as is also well known in the art. The ticket printing unit 1023 is also conventional in the art. The entire assembly is mounted to the wall of the cabinet 580 by means of abracket 1028 and a mounting plate 1027. 
THE MULTIPLE BUSINESS TRANSACTION SYSTEM the functional block diagram shown as coordinatedv with the circuits of FIGS. 11-13A, inclusive. 
 The prior patents of applicant incorporated by reference herein, a Match Circuit is the central controlling means between the information inputs and the item or transaction completion circuitry. The Match Circuit is a coincidence means which must simultane ously be satisfied regarding the total cost computed, 
' the indentlty of a credit card or negotiable instrument, 
 The Currency Input and Package Transport circuits as well as the Change Circuit and the Item issue circuits are all disclosed in applicants prior art patents which have been incorporated by reference herein. Briefly, the Package Transport circuit includes a Special Service input, an Airmail Selection input, a Zone or Zip Code input and a Package Weight input all of which feed into a common Cost determining circuit the output of which is directed to a cost Pulse Generator circuit and thence into a common Total Cost circuit from whence an output representative of the total cost of t. e package transport for one or more packages is directed into an input of the Match Circuit to determine the issuance of a postage stamp or printed ticket representation of paid postage. The representation of paid postage or postage stamp may be issued either through the Ticket Print circuit such as the air line ticket print i023 and its ticket issue slot 1021 (FIG. 9) or it may be issued through the Item issue circuit which is also energized by the output of the Match Circuit. 
 The Item Selection means is also shown in applicants prior patent and briefly consists of an item Selection circuit, generating an input to energize an item Cost circuit providing a cost signal for each item selected by means of energizing a cost Pulse Generator which in turn feeds its output into the common Total Cost determining circuit and thence into the input of the Match Circuit to determine the satisfaction or" the total cost of the transaction as will be hereinafter more fully described. 
 The third module 580 for receiving credit media, foreign currency and negotiable instruments as well as the determination of personal identity is shown as including the following: 
 A credit card receiving means 582 is operatively connected to the credit card impression head 547 which in turn is operatively related to the receipt issuing means 550. i 
 The impression head device 547 has an output which is directly connected to one input of a Decoder network, the latter having additional inputs from the negotiable instrument receiving means 556 and the credit card receiving means 582 as well as the personal identification of the purchaser circuit 537. The personal identification circuit bears the numeral 537 which heretofore designated the closed circuit television camera 537 and the cabinet 580. It is, however, not limited to this specific element and may be other types of devices which automatically monitor a given physical characteristic of the purchaser to validate his personal identity. 
 The foreign currency and negotiable instrument receiving device 556 has a physical output to a deposit device 562 for receiving the tendered foreign currency and negotiable instruments. The deposit means 562, as 
 The Match Circuit further has a control input via the switch 608 fromthe remote station 600 as well as a Total Cost input from the item Selection, Package Transport and Air Transportation circuits, all of these having a common Total Cost determining means connected therewith, to create various coincidence constraints upon satisfaction of which the business transaction desired may be completed. 
 The Air Transportation circuit of the block diagram of FIG. i0 is shown as including the selection key board 3022 comprised of the destination circuit i, flight circuit 1002, a number of passengers circuit 1003, type of transportation and rate circuit 1004 and date desired 1005, all of which have a common output to a Reservation bank which in turn has three outputs, a first output to a Cost determining circuit, a second output to a Ticket Print circuit and a third output to a Reset circuit having a common output connection to all of the key board circuits 1022 to reset the same upon the completion of a business transaction for the reservation of travel accomodations and the issuance of tickets therefor. The flight schedule display circuit 3007 is also shown as connected to the common outputs of the key board circuits i022. 
 The key board circuits 1022 also have a common output to the Cost circuit which, in coincidence with the output from the Reservation circuit, will totalize and determine the cost of the travel accomodations upon the indication by the Reservation circuit that the desired reservations are available. This Cost circuit directs its output to a cost Pulse Generator which in turn generates a cost output for the transaction which is entered in the common Total Cost circuit of the business transaction device of the present invention. The Total Cost circuit as previously described has a single output upon which the cost of any and all of these transactions is transmitted to the Match Circuit where it is compared with the other inputs representing the value of commercial media presented in satisfaction of payment for the transaction desired. 
 The Remote Credit circuit of the present invention is shown as including the remote credit determining units 604 through 607 respectively, which operate an impulse print recording device 610 at the remote station 600 such that the value of a given transaction and the identity thereof are recorded at the remote station. Furthermore, an impulse print circuit 609 controlled by the remote station 66% is also provided to energize a switch 608 adjacent to and providing an input to the Match Circuit such that disabling or enabling signals can be provided to the Match Circuit from the remote station 600. 
 Any of the decoding devices in present use for decoding printed, magnetized or punched credit representations may be used in the Decoder circuit of FIG. 10 for both credit media and coded checks. Such a device is presently manufactured by General Electric under the name of Tradar." Others are based on other scientific principles for reading coded devices. Another device called Varied Data" produced by Electronic Computer Systems Inc. of Miami Springs, Fla., can also be used. This unit is adapted to receive a punched credit card. Through this unit the credit card data is transmitted to a time sharing facility to determine the status of credit whether the card is currently valid and any number'of other validation checks and receive an answer from a computor. This is basically the intended function of the remote station 600, namely, to receive and supply information profided by the Decoder at a central location to thereby compute the validity of presented credit and other commercial media. The resulting validation signal is used as an input to the Match Circuit of FIG. for use in completing the transaction. 
 The Personal Identification circuit of FIG. 10 can comprise any number of known devices which use such things as signature matching, separate code card insertion by a card holder, voice identification or other physical characteristics of'the purchaser. The determination of validity is also used to actuate an input of the match circuit to establish the necessary of coincidence of identity, validity and amount to complete the selected transaction. 
 As previously described in connection with FIG. 7, the monitor 610 and intercom 602 is selectively switched by means of the remote switch 608, shown as a rotary selector type switch, to the closed circuit television cameras 537 or other personal identification validating means located in each of the sections of the apparatus. Further the rotary switch 668 also acts as a routing switch for all of the other functions of the remote station 600 to selectively connect it into operation with any particular business transaction station or module being utilized. 
 Another unit which may be utilized for the determination of the validity of a personal identity or" a purchaser is manufactured by the Cibany Manufacturing Corporation of Greenwich, Connecticut. This unit identifies and verifies a person by means of information stored on an identification card. In this device the person inserts his card and his hand into a viewing area of the device. The machine checks the hand physically to determine certain vital measurements. The stored information stored on the card regarding these measurements is read by the device and compared to the physical measurements made by the device on the inserted hand of the purchaser. If this information is in coincidence, a signal is generated which indicates that the person inserting the card is the same person as that described on the stored information of the card. Therefore, it can readily be seen that a remote closed circuit television station is not the sole contemplated element of the present invention to effect varification of personal identity by the Personal Identity circuit of FIG. 10. 
OPERATION OF THE PRESENT INVENTION A Referring jointly to FIGS. 1 through 10 and to those portions of FIGS. 11 through 13A which contain the following circuits: Deposit and Withdrawal circuit, Credit Identification and Validation circuit, Item Selection circuit, Air Line Ticket Cost circuit, Item Currency Payment circuits (Legal Tender circuit, Credit Card circuit, Credit Print circuit, Remote Monitoring circuit,) Flight Schedule circuit, Remote Payment Control circuit, Value Insertion circuit and Air Line Ticket Print circuit, the operation of the multiple transaction business machine of the present invention will now be described. 
 A customer approaches the apparatus of the present invention and notes the various business transaction purposes forwhich the apparatus is adapted. The customer sees a display cabinet having the wares displayed that are offered for sale at a given price per item; a panel having a key board used for servicing a postal post package; a coin receiving slot; a bill receiving mechanism; cost payment indicator; article and change receiving receptacle; a credit and negotiable instrument area with mirror and camera or other personal identification mechanism; and a cubical having a scale for weighing parcel post packages for ultimate transport. All of these various business transaction functions have been described herein or incorporated by reference herein by way of applicants prior patents. 
 The customer may choose any of the commodities or services offered by the business transaction device of the present invention and pay the cost thereof by the insertion of currency, credit media, negotiable instruments and other commercial media for decoding and/or approval at the specific location of the desired business transaction to be completed. When the payment has been completed, the commodities purchased or the evidence of the contracted services in the form of a receipt or the like are deposited in the proper receptacles of the apparatus together with any change due for overpayment. Therefore, all of the transactions offered by the multiple transaction business machine of the present invention can be completed merely by following the instructions that would necessarily be a part of the device. 
 Since the tender of currency, i.e., legal tender in the form of bills and coin, have already been incorporated by reference herein through applicants prior patents, no further description of operation will be made herein for this function of the present invention. 
TENDER OF PAYMENT BY CREDIT MEDIA AND/OR NEGOTIABLE INSTRUMENT Should the customer desire to use the credit media representation such as a credit card instead of cash to satisfy the cost of the selected business transaction, this credit media such as the credit card 587 of FIG. 4, would be inserted in the credit media receiving slot 582 on the writing surface 560 of the module 580, as shown in FIGS. 3 and 4. The pushbutton 540 of FIGS. 1 and 3 is then depressed to signal the remote operator station 600 shown in FIGS. 10 and 7, to alert the operator of the remote station, via the signal light 603, that a representation of credit media has been offered tov satisfy the amount of cost of the selected transaction. The operator at the station 600 turns the multi-position selector switch 608 to connect the apparatus into the closed circuit television camera 537 and the intercom circuits 602 as well as into the computational circuits of FIG. 10 and other conventional data banks. The purchaser, as well as his credit representation, then appears on a remote station video screen 601 via the closed circuit camera. 53'3" and reflector 536 at the module 580. The customer then may be asked to supply identification which is placed just below the credit representation and appears on the remote screen 601 together with his countenance. If the identification appears satisfactory and the credit acceptable the customer is asked to sign his name and write whatever else is necessary to identify himself in the signature slot 538 in the writing surface 560 of the module 530. Signature and other information may be then verified through observation of the screen 601 by the operator at the remote station 600. 
 When the operator has determined the validity of both the customer and the credit representation tendered of satisfaction of the cost of the transaction, the 
operator may energize the button 619 at the remote station 60%). The operator may also insert into the circuitry of FIG. 12A the agreed amount of credit by turning the dials 604 through 607 to reflect that amount of credit and the upon pushing of the button 609, the switches SS1, SS2, SS3 and SS5 in this circuit and in the money pulsating and matching circuit of FIG. 11 are caused to step to match the settings of the corresponding switches SW1. SW2, SW3, and SW4 which were initially set by the dials 604 through 607. If, meanwhile, the operator has pushed the button 610, the solenoid 545 in the credit media embossing head 547- is energized which causes the credit representation to impart its information onto the double laminated tape 53% which has already been impressed with the signature of I the purchaser. When the total of the purchase has been calculated by the total cost circuit, the printing mechanism 554 which has been monitored by the computerto reflect the continuous summing of costs, prints the total on a tape 530. The tape is then advanced by the motor M with one laminate 55G thereof being is sued through the receipt slot 589 and the other laminates being wound on the roller 533 to be used for billing and oflice records. Any of the various printing assemblies which accept data may be used in conjunction with the computer circuitry. Such printers may include those provided by Pressin Company or those used in the cash register industry. The apparatus is designed to be cleared without insertion of money with the completion of the printing operation. 
 In the case of live monitoring of the business transaction apparatus ofthe present invention from the remote station 660, if the operator should not approve the credit or the validity of the holder, he would ask the customer to remove the credit representation proffered and and to pay the purchases in cash. 
 When a treated or punched credit representation is used there are a number of associated reading devices which may be used to determine the validity of the credit without resorting to the remote station operator. These have been described hereinbefore. 
 To identify the holder of the credit representation and the validity of the credit card, the affirmative outputs of one of each of these devices is used to constrain the apparatus to proceed with the transaction without reversion to a remote operator when automatic physical characteristic identification devices such as those previously described herein are utilized. Such peripheral type equipment and its connections into the subject apparatus can easily be adapted to the circuitry of FIGS. 11 through 13A to transfer all of the information to the circuitry as is well known to those skilled in the art. The information could trigger a relay to connect the setting of the matching relays R1, R2, R59 in the Money Pulsating and Matching circuit of FIG. 1 l to a maximum amount representated by the credit connect the contacts associated with the values represented by the credit media to the above mentioned match relays. The customer could be allowed to set into the apparatus the amount desired in the payment provided it is less than the maximum allowable credit rating of the card, by energizing dial circuitry like that of the remote station 600, which would now not be removed from the machine and would place the credit limit dials 604 through 607 at the disposal of the customer, through the insertion of the credit representation and turning the dials to the desired amount. 
 In other words, all of the features of the remote sta tion, subject to an automatic personal identification validating constraint, could be placed at the situs of the business transaction complex such as shown in FIG. 7 if provided with fully automatic identification, precluding the need for remote stations 600. 
 Should the customer desire to pay by negotiable instruments, such instrument would be placed on the shelf or writing surface 560 as previously described in connection with FIGS. 1. 2, 5, and 6 and the button 539 would be pushed to indicate to the operator of the remote station 600 that a customer had a negotiable instrument to be tendered in payment of the cost of the transaction. The customer and the negotiable instrument may both be viewed on theremote screen 601 and the operator will then note the type and value of the instrument. An identification may be required which may be placed along side the instrument. The 
operator examines both and then requests the customer to make a signature in the signature slot 538 and enter the negotiable instrument proffered into the negotiable instrument slot 556 on the writing surface 560. The operator then pushes the button 609 which energizes the motor M11 in FIGS. 5 and 6 to cause the belt 557 representation. The switch contacts involved would 7 to pull negotiable instrument into the apparatus and place the same in hamper 562, during which operation, the operator has set the dials 604 through 607 to reflect the amount of value represented by the negotiable-instrument into the remote payment circuitry of FIGQ lZA. Should the instrument be a piece of foreign currency as opposed to the acceptable national legal tender, the exchange rate would be taken into account in establishing the value to be imposed on the remote payment control circuit and value insertion network in FIG. 12A. Pushing the button 699 also causes the switches SS1, SS2, SS3 and SS5 to step to match the settings of the corresponding switches SW1 through SW4 which were previously positioned by the dials 634 through 607 respectively. If the cost of the items purchased is less than the value determined by the setting of the dials, change for the difference will be determined by the computer circuitry. The totals of the transaction are printed on a tape 530 by the print mechanism 564 as previously described in connection with the presentation of credit media. 
 Should the negotiable instrument be one which is coded by treating or punching or the like, it would be handled as described above for treated or coated credit representations and the identity of the customer could also be automatically determined as hereinbefore described. 
 By virtue of the fact that a foreign exchange rate can be inserted into the value insertion circuits of the remote payment network of FIG. 12A, that this invenl L I tion may be used in any country using that countrys currency especially when the above described acceptance procedures are adhered to. The value of the currency will be translated into values by turning the dials 604-607 in accordance with the determined translation monetary ratios which are usable in the apparatus. 
 For example, the dials 604 through 607 may be Canadian, British, German, Japanese or any other currency value ofa so-called foreign country. The switches may be hooked up for the base or domestic country, such as the United States, into which it should be related. Since the exchange ratio is the same for all denominations of currency ofa particular country relative, say, to the United States, turning of the dials 604-607 to the foreign countries value of negotiable instrument or the legal tender will automatically relate that value into its value in terms of the base country on the switches. it is well known that a dial can be attached to a mechanism and turned to the inscribed value and the mechanism will reflect the movement associated with the dial calibration. It is also well known that the dial can be recalibrated in a different ratio. The movement of the mechanism will still reflect the movement of the old dial but the position of the mechanism for the new dial calibration will be different from the old one. 
 Therefore, when the dials 604-607 are set to reflect the amount of value represented by the instrument, (pounds, francs, marks, yen, etc.) the exchange rate would be taken into account in establishing its values. So, therefore, switches-SW1-SW4 positioned by the dials 604-607 will indicate the foreign value in the basic countries currency to be represented as inputs into the stepping switches SS1 through SS5 in the Money Pulsating and Matching circuits of FIG. 11. 
 Referring further to FIGS. 10, 7 and 12A, the actuation of the button 540 on the console of the module 580 of the present invention for payment by credit media causes the bulb 603 to light at the remote station 600 energizing relay R101 to energize and lock itself into the circuit of FIG. 12A by closing the switch P101 and locking out the currency evaluating circuit of FIG. 12. A switch S100 is provided which when operated subsequent to the actuation of the push button 540 causes the relay R100 to energize and lock itself into the circuit. The credit card impression solenoid 545 is also energized and thus causes the credit card information to be recorded on the receipt tape 534. The motion of the print solenoid towards the extreme print position causes the limit switch LS100 to close thus causing the motor M10 to run. The rotation of the motor M10 causes the switch LS101 to close by means ofa cam shaft and to keep the motor running until the proper predetermined amount of the tape is advanced, which will give the customer the receipt with the cost information, credit card imprint and validation information and signature on it. The closing of the switch LS 100 also causes a relay R104 to energize and thereby open the circuit of the switch S100 by opening the contact P104. This results in a reset of the credit representation circuit ofFiG. 12A. 
 When negotiable instruments are presented as opposed to credit media,'said instruments comprising either money orders, foreign currency or personal writing panel 560 of the module 580 causing the bulb 603 to light on a remote control panel 600 and causing, in circuit of FIG. 12A, the relay R103 to energize, lock itself into the circuitry by closing its contacts P103 and lock out the credit representation circuit of FIG. 12A 
by opening that one of its contacts P103 in the circuit of the switch 540. A switch S is provided at the remote station 600 which is to be actuated after the push button 539 on the console 580 has been energized thereby causing the relay R103 and a corresponding indicator bulb 603A in the circuit of FIG. 12A to be energized. This further causes energization of the relay R102 which is locked into the negotiable instrument circuit by the closing of its contacts P102. The print solenoid circuit may then be actuated by pressing of the switch button S at the remote station 600, all shown jointly by FIGS. 7 and 12A as comprising a series combination of the relay contacts P102, closed push button switch S110, and print solenoidPS shown in the credit print circuit of FIG. 12A. The print solenoid PS is an integral part of the print mechanism 554 previously described in connection with FIG. 2. 
 Referring further to FIG. 12A, the actuation of the print'solenoid PS will cause the switch LS100 to close and energize the tape advance motor M10. The starting of the motor M10 will cause the switch LS101 to close and keep the motor M10 running. Since all of the relay contacts P102 in the circuit of FIG. 12A are actuated by energization of the relay R102, the switch contact P102 in the bus bar of the remote payment control and value insertion networks of FIG. 12A is also closed. allowing the value of the negotiable instrument or legal tender presented (foreign currency), as determined by the remote station operator though the closed television circuit cameras 537 and intercom system previously described, to be entered into the computing circuits of FIG. 10 by turning of the dials 604 through 607. The computer as stated herein refers generally to the total cost and match circuits of FIG. 10. Referring to the value insertion circuit of FIG. 12A the value of these instruments or foreign currency or the like will be registered on the contacts of the switches associated with the switch dials SW1, SW2, SW3, SW4. Since the push button 539 has already been energized, the'relay in the remote payment control network has been locked in by the closing of relay contacts P160 and P166. When the relay R102 is energized through the pushing of the push button S100, the relay contacts P102 were all actuated thereby causing the relay R99 in the Remote Payment control network to energize through the closed relay contacts P160 and P102 in the bus bar as above described. The energization of the relay R99 causes the stepping switches SS1, SS2, SS3 and SS5 in the Value Insertion network of FIG. 12A to be pulsed to a point coinciding with the contacts previously positioned by the switches SW1, SW2, SW3 and SW4 at the remote station 600. As each of these separate switches SSl-SSS matches the corresponding dial settings SW1-SW4, corresponding relays R102-R105 are energized. When all of these relays are energized the relay R106 is energized thereby causing its contact P106 to open, thereby deenergizing the relay R160. Thus, the. value of the legal tender or negotiable instruments is now represented on the contacts of the stepping switches SSl-SSS. 
 Once the validation and value of the credit media and negotiable instruments tendered in satisfaction of the cost of the desired transaction have been entered into the machine, the operation for the selection of articles and the item issue circuitry operate in the same way as previously described in applicants prior patents incorporated by reference herein. Furthermore, the machine of the present invention may be utilized by superimposing currency payments onto credit payments and all of this will be calculated and taken into consideration by the Total Cost and Match Circuits of the invention. 
 In the foregoing, all of these remote stations stepping switches SS1SS5 have corresponding stepping switches located in the Money Pulsating and Matching circuit and theDeposit and Withdrawal circuits, and Credit Identification and Validation circuits shown in FIG. 11. In this way, the Remote Station can be operated to constrain the local computer circuitry at the business transaction machine situs to the data provided from the Remote Station. 
 When a coded or treated credit card or negotiable instrument is used as a means of initiating or tendering payment in satisfaction of the costs to be incurred in the desired business transaction, the automatic identification and reading devices previously described herein can be interconnected into the circuitry of FIGS. i1 
through 13A of the present invention to provide automatic operation, including that of personal identity verification as well as validation of the credit media and negotiable instruments. In each type of automatic device there is a signal generated which indicates either the acceptance or rejection of the physical data of the purchaser should it correspond with recorded data in an associated memory bank of the device. The acceptance signal is used to actuate relays (not shown) which will close the previously described contacts controlling the stepper switches SS] through SS5 shown in FIG. 1!. These switches would then indicate to the Total Cost and Match Circuits of FIG. t0 the maximum value for which purchases or transactions may be made. For a credit card, these signals would also open the CHANGE CIRCUIT to avoid issuing change for the difference between item costs and credit established by the signal and the match circuit. All other operations subsequent to this automatic detection and identification of personal identity and credit validity would be accomplished as previously described herein. 
 Thus, a credit card validity can be checked and the resulting signal used to either insert a maximum value into the Match Circuit of FIG. and constrain a release of those items which have been choosen without issuing any change even though the maximum amount of the credit rating on the credit media or credit card has not been reached. Additionally, if there is unlimited credit available, a signal would be generated to allow full usage of the business transaction apparatus without limit of credit by causing the opening of the stepping switches S820, S821, S322 and SS6 in the Total Cost Representation circuit of HO. HA. 
THE BANKING FUNCTEQN OF THE INVENTION Reference is now made to FIG. 11 to the Deposit and Withdrawal and the Credit Identification and Validation circuits shown therein which are for the purpose of banking transactions such as making withdrawals from an account, depositing in an account, or if cashing of a negotiable instrument such as a check is requested by the customer. A switch S200 is provided which is closed by the customer and an identification card is inserted into the card checking and reading device which .may be included in the console 580 as hereinbefore described. Also, the switch S200 may comprise a push button similar to the push buttons 539 and 540 shown on the console 580 in FlGS. i and 3. 
 If the credit check circuit provides an affirmative signal the relay R127 thereof is energized to close the circuit to the withdrawal and deposit circuits through the relay contacts T127. The customer then turns the dials SW200 through SW204 which sets the contacts thereof to respective contacts of stepper switches S520, S821, S822 and SS6 to represent the proper amount of money involved in the withdrawal; or the dials SW2l0 through SW214 are set to constrain the stepper switches SS1, SS2, SS3 and SS5 to represent the proper a amount of money involved in the deposit. The rest of the procedure is conducted through the Total Cost, Change issue, Receipt Issue and Match Circuits of FIG. 10 as previously described for other types of transactions. For the deposit of large bills and checks, the closed circuit television cameras 537 are used as hereinbefore described to verify the validity and value of the instruments. A tape receipt is issued to the customer and the information entered into the computer circuitry of FIG. 10 such that the customers account may be immediately updated. 
 In these transactions as in the case of the previously described business transactions, remote attendance or automatic personal identification mechanisms can be incorporated in the console 580 to cooperate with the deposit, withdrawal and credit identification and validation circuits for banking purposes. 
 As in the Credit Identity and Validity circuit in cooperation with the Banking Deposit and Withdrawal circuits of FIG. 11, the relay R127 closes its relay contacts P127 in FIG. 12A in the Credit Card Credit Print and Negotiablelnstrument circuits for the same purpose as just described, namely, that of identifying and validating the credit media and/or negotiable instrument media which has been tendered in satisfaction of payment of the desired transaction. 
 In all of the foregoing description, the switches for setting the valuation of the desired transaction, namely, the switches with the SW designation, may appear on the console 580 as well as at the Remote Station 600 if such is associated with the business transaction device being utilized. These banks of switches designated with the SW prefix are not specifically shown as being on the consoles but in fact are placed thereon in a bank for use by the customers. 
THE TICKET VENDING FUNCTION OF THE INVENTION Referring to FlGS. 8, 9, 10, 12A and 13, the operation of the airline ticket vending apparatus of the present invention will now be described. 
 As previously described herein, the necessary items of information for the vending of an airline ticket and reservation are the destination, class of travel and category of fare. Other specific items are the flight number and date of departure. The input panel 1022 o