Card routing apparatus 
US-3735095-A
Kienzle Apparate Gmbh
1973-05-22
https://patents.google.com/patent/US3735095A/en
United States Patent Mutz et a1. May 22, 1973 [54] CARD ROUTING APPARATUS [56] References Cited [75] Inventors: Gerhard Mutz; Bernhard Hettich; UNITED STATES PATENTS 2 2 Moser an of vmmgen Ger- 3,356,021 12/1967 May et al. ..235/6l.9 R y 3,107,292 lO/1963 Daly et a1 ..235/6l.9 R 
Assignee: Kienzle Apparate GmbH, Villingen/Schwarzwald, Germany Filed: Apr. 29, 1971 Appl. No.: 138,669 
Related US. Application Data Division of Ser. No. 818,523, April 23, 1969, Pat. No. 3,614,094. 
us. (:1. ..235/61.9 R, 101/93 c, 271/64 Int. Cl. ..B65h 24/58, G06k 3/00 Field of Search ..271/64, 52, 59; 
235/619 R; 101/93 RC Primary Examiner-Maynard R. Wilbur Assistant ExaminerThomas J. Sloyan Attorney-Michael S. Striker ABSTRACT Cards are transported by reversible transporting means between an input station, a readout and recording station, and a printing station. Routing means are disposed between the input station, and the readout and recording station, for discharging returned cards, and other routing means are located between the readout and recording station, and the printing station, for discharging read out cards which need not reach the printing station. The routing means cooperate with reversible transporting means for the cards. 
 11 Claims, 12 Drawing Figures PATENTEBmzzam SHEET 1 [IF 8 0w ad S. 114;. 
their ATTORbEY PATENTELRIYZZIQH 3 735,095 
SHEET 2 [IF 8 HIJIIHII 1 l NVENTORS Gerhard MUTZ Bernhard HETTICH Werner MOSER B Vila! 6/24 their ATTORNEY PATENIE M22 1975 SHLET 3 BF 8 I NVENTORS Gerhard MUTZ Bernhard HETTICH Werner MOSER l/M f/ wtheir ATTORNEY PATENTEDW 3,735,095 
SHEET [1F 8 INVENTORS Gerhard MUTZ Bernhard HETTICH Werner NDSER /li/M f p -4 their ATTORNEY PAIENTEDMYEZIQYS 3 735 095 SHEET 5 OF 8 S U m R U M 1 m M m @m m m m mm\ il/\\\\\ H Bernhard HETTICH Werner MOSER h-hl/ #:L, their ATTORNEY PATEMmmzzms f 3735.695 
 sum 6 0F 8 INVENTORS Gerhard MUTZ. 
Bernhard HETTICH Werner MOSER swim/J (#4 their ATTORNEY PATENTELKIYQPIW 3.735.095 
SHEET 7 or 8 v Fig. 7 INVENTORS Gerhard MUTZ Bernhard HE TTICH Werner MOSER their ATTORNEY Fig.8 
UHH In INVENTORS Gerhard MUTZ Bernhard HETTICH Werner MOSER their ATTORNEY CARD ROUTING APPARATUS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION The present application is a divisional application of 5 application Ser. No. 818,523, filed Apr. 23, 1969 now U.S. Pat. No. 3,614,094. 
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to an apparatus by which cards are transported to a printing station which is controlled by a program controlled data processing computer, and by a manual keyboard. The printing station prints not only on interconnected forms, such as invoices, statements, and the like, which are folded in accordion pleats, but also on separate forms, such as account cards and the like. The account cards are generally not completed in a single printing operation, but are imprinted from time-to-time to indicate transactions occurring on the account. It is not only necessary to feed the cards in forward direction to the printing station, but it is necessary to transport the imprinted card in the opposite direction to a receptacle after, for example, a single line has been printed on a card. It is, of course, also possible to make copies of the newly imprinted account cards or forms. 
 In accordance with the prior art, single forms or cards are inserted into the paper carriage of the accounting machine, and the printing means are stationary. However, this construction requires the mounting of a guide frame for the form sheet or card on the paper carriage, which increases the weight of the same and results in slower movement of the paper carriage. It is desirable to reduce the mass of all moving parts of an accounting machine in order to obtain higher processing speeds during the printing, as well as during the input and discharge of the form sheets. It is also desirable to facilitate the insertion of the cards, for example, by placing the container for the account cards in the proximity of the input of the accounting machine. 
 Apparatus is known in which the account card is placed on a table below the keyboard and correctly positioned by at least two guide walls before the account card can be fed. This apparatus permits the use of account cards having a predetermined width. 
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION It is one object of the invention to provide apparatus for making lists containing information related to different cards. 1 
 Another object of the invention is to assort cards, for example cards for accounts on which transactions have taken place, and other cards in whose accounts no transactions have taken place. 
 Another object of the invention is to route cards which are not to be imprinted to a discharge receptacle. 
 Another object of the invention is to imprint data derived from read out and discharged cards on a form sheet. 
 With these objects in view, one embodiment of the apparatus comprises an input station, a readout and recording station, a printing station, transporting means for transporting the cards from the input station to the printing station in a forward feeding direction and from the printing station to a discharge receptacle in the reverse feed directiomand routing means at the inlet and outlet of the readout and recording station which are shiftable to discharge cards into corresponding receptacles. 
 The novel features which are considered as characteristic for the invention are set forth in particular in the appended claims. The invention itself, however, both as to its construction and its method of operation, together with additional objects and advantages thereof, will be best understood from the following description of specific embodiments when read in connection with the accompanying drawings. 
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING FIG. 1 is a schematic perspective view illustrating an embodiment of the data processing apparatus of the invention; 
 FIG. 2 is the left portion, and FIG. 2 is the right portion of a fragmentary plan view illustrating the reversible drive of the card feeding means, and the input station of the embodiment of FIG. 1; 
 FIG. 2a is a fragmentary plan view illustrating the positioning means of the input station; 
 FIG. 2b is a fragmentary side elevation of the input station; 
 FIG. 3 is a fragmentary side elevation of the apparatus; 
 FIG. 4 is a fragmentary side elevation illustrating the readout and recording station of the apparatus on a larger scale; 
 FIG. 5a and 5b are fragmentary side elevations on a larger scale illustrating two positions of a routing means of the apparatus; 
 FIG. 6 is a fragmentary plan view of the routing means in the position of FIG. 5b; 
 FIG. 7 is a schematic diagram illustrating the electric control circuit of the apparatus; and 
 FIG. 8 is a plan view of an account card which can be processed by the apparatus. 
DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT General Arrangement Referring to FIG. 1, a printer housing 201 is mounted on a supporting console 200 in which the electronic data processing computer and its programming means are preferably located. On the right of the printer, a keyboard 203 is provided which includes an alphanumerical typewriter keyboard 204, a digital keyboard 205, and an operation control keyboard 206. Keyboard 204 serves for writing the text, keyboard 205 serves for entering all digital values which have to be processed in the computer, while keyboard 206 serves for starting operations in cooperation with the programmed data processing computer. All keys of keyboards 204, 205, 
206 operate electric switches so that the keyboards are connected by a cable consisting of a plurality of conductive wires with the data processing computer. An array of luminous indicator areas 227 is disposed above the keyboard 204, 205 and 206 which may serve the indication of different operational conditions of the data processing computer, of the printer, of the card feeding means, and of other auxiliary devices which may be used, for example feeding means for punch cards or for punch' tape, and discharge means for the same. 
 On the left of the table 202, a table 207 is mounted on the supporting means 200 which is bounded on the left by an abutment plate 57 to which a vertical guide wall 45 is secured which'serves for positioning the account card 58. Guide wall 45 is located below a table 208 which is located at the same level as table 202. The card input station 209 is located below table 208 and includes a plate 57. A card receptacle 86 is supported under table 207. Two vertical support walls 2 and 3 are provided on opposite sides of the card feeding drive and support the shafts of the same, as will be described in further detail with reference to FIGS. 2 and 3. 
 A base plate 210 carries the lateral support walls 21 1 and 212 for the printer which-constitutes a unit connected by screws, not shown in FIG. 1, with the supporting means 200 which also carries the card feeding drive. The printer has a printing cylinder 104 which is continuously rotated by a gear 213 driven from a shaft 214 which is rotatably mounted on support walls 211 and 212. Printing cylinder 104 can be tabulated to the left and right in a manner which is not an object of the present invention, and is provided with eight circular peripheral rows of types, corresponding to a complete alpha numerical system so that eight characters or digits can be simultaneously printed by printing cylinder 104 in cooperation with an axial row of eight printing hammers which are disposed behind the form to be printed and the account card 58. Printing hammers 105 are driven by pawls coupled with a snatch roll 215, after selection of a particular type. The printer is not an object of the present invention. 
 Transporting means for a band consisting of connected forms 216 can also be mounted between support walls 2, 3 in addition to the feeding means for the account cards 58. The form band 216 is provided with transporting holes 219 arranged along the lateral edges of the same, and is driven by sprocket belts, not shown, engaging transporting holes 219. Flaps 220 which are mounted on the supports of the sprocket belt, serve the purpose of guiding forms 216 securely over the sprocket belt which is driven from a shaft 221 by means of gears 222. The transporting means for the band of interconnected forms is not an object of the invention. 
 It should be noted, however, that the printer, mounted between support walls 211 and 212, the feeding and transporting drive for the cards 58, mounted between support walls 2 and 3, and also the transporting means for the band of forms 216 are separate complete units, permitting a selective combination of the printer with the form tape transporting unit, with the feeding unit, as well as with both units. 
Card Feed Control Station REferring now to FIGS. 2, 2a, 2b and 3, base plate 1 carries lateral support walls 2 and 3. A motor 4 is mounted between two support walls 5 and 6 on base plate 1, and drives a shaft 7 carrying a pulley 8 driving a belt 9 and a pulley 10 connected by a sleeve 11 with a gear 12 meshing with another gear 13 and being connected with the input part of an electromagnetic card feed clutch KE whose output part is connected by a sleeve 15 with a gear 16 mounted on a shaft 17 carried by a support wall 18. Gear 16 meshes with a gear 19 connected by a sleeve 20 with shaft 21. An electromagnetic brake B has a rotary part connected with shaft 21, and a stationary part. Shaft 21 drives a pulley 22 which rotates a shaft 25 by belt 23 and pulley 24. 
 Gear 13 is connected with one part of an electromagnetic card feed reverse clutch KR whose other coupling part is connected by a bushing 26 with a gear 27 and mounted on a shaft 28. Gear 27 meshes with gear 19. Card forward feed clutch KE and card reverse feed clutch KR and brake B are selectively energized, and when none of the clutches KB and KR is engaged, brake B is energized and blocks rotation of card feed control shaft 25 and prevents feeding of a card. When electromagnetic brake B is disconnected, either feed clutch KB, or reverse feed clutch KR is engaged for driving feed control shaft 25 in one or the other direction of rotation. When card feed clutch KE is energized, the card feeding means are driven from motor 4 by means of shaft 7, pulleys 8 and 10, shaft 15, gear 16, gear 19, shaft 21, pulleys 22 and 24 in the feeding direction so that a card is fed from the card table 207, 57 to the printing station between printing cylinder 104 and printing hammers 105. If feed reverse clutch KR is energized, motor 4 drives shaft 25 by pulleys 8 and 10, gears 12 and 13, clutch KR, gear 27, gear 19, shafts 20 and 21, and pulleys 22 and 24. The electromagnetic brake B stops the entire drive, when energized. Card Input Station Feed control shaft 25, which is mounted between support walls 2, 3 carries a double pulley 29 whose parts drive two belts 30 and 31 respectively driving pulleys 32 and 34 for rotating shafts 33 and 35, respectively, which are both mounted on support walls 2 and 3. The left end of shaft 35 projects beyond support wall 3 and drives through a one-way clutch 35a, see FIG. 2, a pulley 36 only in one direction, corresponding to forward feeding of the card. Pulley 36 drives through a belt 37, a double pulley 38 which drives a belt 39 passing over a pulley 40. Pulley 38 is secured to a shaft 41 carrying a driving transporting roller 42, while pulley 40 is connected with a shaft 43 carrying a driving transporting roller 44. Transporting rollers 42 and 44 are shown in FIGS. 3 and 2b and serve for feeding cards in cooperation with pressure transporting rollers 50 and 51 rotatably supported on carrier levers 48 and 49 mounted on pivot pins 46 and 47 for angular movement with pressure rollers 50 and 51. Carrier levers 48 and 49 have upper arms 48' and 49' which are mounted by means of a pin-and-slot connection on a shifting bar 52 which has longitudinal slots 53 guided on studs 54 on guide wall 45. Bar 52 is connected with the armature 55 of a card feed control electro magnet KK which, when energized, pulls bar 52 to the left against the action of a spring, not shown. When carrier levers 48 and 49 are angularly displaced by electromagnet KK, pressure rollers 50 and 51 engage the driving transporting rollers 42 and 44 so that the card is transported in a feeding direction toward the right as viewed in FIG. 3, feeding in the opposite direction being not possible due to the provision of the one-way clutch 35a in the transmission between feed control shaft 25, and driving transporting rollers 42 and 44. When the electromagnetic brake B is not actuated, and the card feed clutch KE is energized, driving transporting rollers 42 and 44 are driven. However, due to the action of the spring, not shown, acting on bar 52, pressure rollers 50 and 51 are spaced from driving transporting rollers 42 and 44, until electromagnet KK is energized for starting feeding of a card located between the pairs of transporting rollers 42, 50 and 44, 51. 
 The guide wall 45 is vertical and perpendicular to the horizontal top surface of cardtable 57, 207 on which the card 58 is placed in a position in which a lateral edge of the cards abuts the guide wall 45 while the card is located between the pairs of transporting rollers 44, 51 and 41, 50. Guide wall 45 has two openings 59 and 60 through which end portions of two feeler levers 61 and 62 project beyond the guiding surface of guide wall 45 in the plane in which the card is located. The feeler levers 61 and 62 are mounted on pivots 63 and 64 and have inner adjacent ends cooperating with a light barrier LS 1. In the normal position of rest, feeler levers 61 and 62 are in the position of FIG. 2 in which the path of the light within the light barrier LS l is interrupted since the end portions 61, 62' block the rays of light between a source of light 223 and a photocell 224, as best seen in FIG. 2b. When a card 58 is positioned on table 57 with its lateral edge abutting the guide surface of guide wall 45 and the end portions of feeler levers 61 and 62, the same are displaced so that the end portions 61' and 62' open the path of light within the light barrier LS 1 so that the photocell 224 generates a pulse energizing feed control electromagnet KK so that pressure rollers 50 and 51 press the card against driving transporting rollers 42 and 44 so that the card is fed toward the right as viewed in FIG. 3. 
Readout Station The reversible feed control shaft 25 is driven by a gear 67 and meshing gears 68, 69 and 70 and pulleys 71, 72, and a belt 73. Pulleys 71 and 72 are mounted on shafts carrying driven pressure rollers 83 and 84 and are driven from feed control shaft 25 by means of the transmission 67 to 70 in the same direction as shaft 25. Shafts 25 and 35 carry driving transporting rollers 74 and 75 cooperating with pressure transporting rollers 76 and 77, see FIG. 3, mounted on lever arms 78 and 79 pivotally supported on shafts 80 and 81 on support wall 2, and normally held by spring 82 connecting levers 78, 79 in a position abutting transporting rollers 74 and 75. Pressure rollers 83 and 84 press card 58 during feeding in the feeding direction, and also during reverse feeding in the opposite direction, against two magnetic heads, namely magnetic head MK serving for readout and also for recording, and the magnetic clearing head LK, see FIGS. 3 and 4. Clearing head LK serves for erasing magnetic recordings recorded on a magnetizable strip or tape on account card 58, see FIG. 8. Magnetic head MK reads out information from magnetizable strip 85 during feeding movement of the account card 58, and also records new information concerning newly computed data during the reverse feeding of the card from the right to the left, as viewed in FIG. 3 toward the receiving receptacle 86 in which discharged cards are collected. 
 As shown in FIG. 8, the account card 58 has along its right edge the magnetizable strip 85, and along its left edge a control strip 99 which has black portions 100, 102 interrupted by reflecting portions 101, 103 and cooperating with a light barrier LS 3, as will be explained hereinafter. Strips 85 and 99 are provided on both sides of the account cards in registering positions. The magnetic heads MK and LK cooperate with the magnetizable strip 85 on the bottom face of the account card 58. The positions of magnetic heads MK and LK, and also of the light barriers LS 1, LS 2 and LS 3, which will be described hereinafter, are adjusted only in relation to the guide wall 45 by which the account card 58 is also positioned. The light barrier LS 2 is past by the leading edge of a fed card before the same reaches magnetic head MK, and produces a signal indicating the presence of a card at the readout station and causing by means of the programmed computer the energization of the magnetic head MK for reading out data recorded on magnetizable strip 85. 
Routing Means Between the card input station 209 with card table 57 and guide wall 45, and the readout station including magnetic heads MK and LK, a routing means or mechanical switch a is disposed which in the normal position shown in FIG. 3 and FIG. 5a, permits the feeding of the card to the readout station. In the position of FIG. 5b, routing means 85a routes a card downward into the receptacle 86 after the card has been transported inreverse feeding direction through the readout station. FIGS. 5a and 5b show routing means 85a in a reversed position as compared with FIG. 3 since the elevation of FIGS. 5a and 5b is viewed from the opposite side of the apparatus, as compared with FIG. 3. 
 Routing means 85a includes an upper guide plate 230 and a lower guide plate 231 extending over the entire transverse width of table 57. The upper guide plate 230 is bent upward so that the edge 232 provides guidance for the entering account card. The guide plates 230 and 231 are secured to each other by bent projections. The angular portion 234 is connected with the upper part of guide plate 230 and with the lower part 231, and centers routing means 85a in relation to shaft 35. A spring, not shown, holds routing means 85a in the normal position shown in FIG. 5a. The projection 233 is connected to the armature 236 of a first routing electromagnet WE 1 by a pivot 235. A double armed pawl 238 is mounted on a stationary pivot 237 and is provided with a locking projection 239. The right arm of pawl 238 is articulated to the armature 240 of a second routing electromagnet WA I. A spring 241 is connected with armature 240 and with a stationary stud 242 and biasses armature 240 out of the coil of the first routing electromagnet WA 1 until the pawl abuts with a nose 238' on a stop 242. 
 The lower guide plate 231 has an arresting edge 231', best seen in FIG. 6, cooperating with a locking projection 239 of pawl 238. When the first routing magnet WE I is energized, the guide plates 230 and 231, forming the routing means 85a, are together pulled downward so that guide plates 230 and 231 assume the position of FIG. 5b. During this operation, pawl 238 is displaceduntil locking projection 239 engages and arrests the abutment edge 231' so that the routing means 780 is arrested in the displaced position in which the card is guided below table 57 and discharged into a receptacle 86. In the normal position of FIG. 5a, the card is guided from input station 209, 57, 45 to the readout station, as is apparent from FIG. 3. From the position of routing means 85a shown in FIG. 5b, it is apparent that the edge 232 of the upper guide plate 230 blocks entry of a forwardly transported card into the routing means so that no new card can be fed from the input station into the readout station as long as routing means 85a is in the discharge position shown in FIG. 5b. In order to return the routing means 85a to its normal po sition, the second routing electromagnet WA I is energized so that pawl 238 is displaced in clockwise direction and releases the lower guide plate 231, permitting return of routing means 85a under the action of a spring, not shown, to the normal position of FIG. 5a and FIG. 3. 
 Following the readout station and transporting rollers 77, 75, another routing means 106 is provided which is constructed as described with reference to the routing means 85a. In the normal position of the apparatus, routing means 106 is in the normal position of FIG. 3, permitting passage of a card transported by transport ing rollers 77,75 into a chute formed of guide walls 94 and 94', and leading to the printing station indicated in FIG. 3 by printing cylinder 104i and printing hammers 105. When routing means we is angularly displaced under the control of another first routing electromagnet WE II, see FIG. 7, the transported card is guided downward into receptacle M7 so that the card is not transported to the printing station. Routing means 14% is returned by a spring, not shown, to the normal position by operation of the second routing electromagnet WA II, see FIG. 7. 
 By suitably positioning routing means @511 and W6, it is possible to transport the card from the input station along a first path through the readout station with magnetic heads MK and LK, and along a second path defined by transporting rollers 86, 89 and 88, 90 to the printing station NM, 105. When the imprinted card is transported in the opposite direction by reversed transporting means, the routing means 85a is turned to the discharge position, so that the returning card is discharged into receptacle $6 after passing through the readout station. 
 On the other hand, it is also possible to shift routing means I06 out of its normal position to the discharge position so that a card transported from the input station 57, 45 in the normal feeding direction is guided into receptacle 107 after passing through the readout station. As a result, it is possible that the card passes the input station and the readout station and is discharged and collected, without arriving at the printing station in a printing position. In this manner, values which are recorded on the card, can be read out by a magnetic head MK in the readout station and recorded or printed on a band consisting of interconnected forms 1041a shown in FIG. 3 on the right of-transporting rollers 88. At the same time,.routing means 85a and 1106 prevent movement of cards in a wrong direction and before certain operations have been completed. 
Printing Station As shown in FIG. 3, shaft 33 carries transporting rollers 86. Shaft 33 is connected by pulleys, not shown, and belt 31 with a shaft 87 carrying transporting rollers 88. Pressure rollers 89 and 90 cooperate with the driving transporting rollers 86 and 88, and are mounted on levers 91 and 92. Springs 93 bias levers 91 and 92 to engage with rollers 89 and 90 the transporting rollers 86 and 88. Guide plates 94 and 941' form a chute for guiding the forward fed cards to the pairs of transporting rollers. Above the pair of transporting rollers 8%, 9th, a photoelectric light barrier L3 3 is disposed. The source of light and the photocell of light barrier LS 3 are arranged on the same side of the card 58, and the light emitted by the source of light is reflected by the surface of card 58 and then enters the photocell. The light barrier-LS 3 cooperates with the control strip 99 provided on the left side of the card 58, as shown in FIG. 8, and has an upper black portion W covering the entire heading of the account card which represents the name and address of a customer. The black portion W0 is followed at equal intervals by bright markings WI interrupted by black markings W2. All bright markings 11M are of the same width and spaced in accordance with the lines of card 58. Preferably, the dark marks I02 are somewhat wider than the bright marks 101. Only the last line of the card is associated with the bright mark 103 which is wider than the other bright marks 101 for a reason which will be explained hereinafter. 
 When the card has passed the photoelectric sensing means LS 3, it arrives at the printing station in a position located between the print cylinder I04 and the corresponding printing hammers 1105. 
Control Circuit Referring now to FIG. 7, an electronic data processing computer cooperates with a programming means P. An electronic storage means SP is provided with any selected number of storing members by which not only certain values are stored during feeding of the card, but which also are used for temporary storage of data during the processing. A keyboard T controls switches connected with computer RSW by operation of keys, only six keys T to T being shown. The partly shown keyboard T corresponds to the operation controlled keyboard 2% described with reference to FIG. 1. Feed control electromagnet KK, the routing magnets WE I and WA I of routing means a, and the routing electromagnets WE II and WA II of routing means 106, are connected by amplifiers V 5 to V 9, respectively, with computer RSW. 
 Light barriers LS I and LS 2 are connected by lines and 123 with computer RSW to which readout head MK and clearing head LK are connected by lines I24, 12$, respectively. 
 A binary counter Z has six stages and can count up to the number 63. Six presetting lines 2., to Z connect counter l with computer RSW, and serve the purpose of presetting counter Z to a predetermined numerical value which is required for the determination of the line position. Counter Z has an input E 2 connected by an amplifier V 1 with the photoelectric sensing means LS 3. Counter Z has six output lines A, to A which, when all receive an L signal, render an AND gate N 4 conductive so that two flip-flops FF 1 and FF 2 are actuated so that flip-flop FF 1 assumes the condition 0 L and flip-flop FF 2 assumes the condition L O. The left part of the flip-flop FF 1 and the right part of flip-flop FF 2 are connected with computer RSW. The left part of flip-flop FF I is connected by the amplifier V 2 with the forward feed clutch KE, while the right part of flip-flop FF 2 is connected by an amplifier V 3 with the reverse feed clutch KR, see FIG. 2. The right output of flip-flop FF 1 and the left output of flip-flop FF 2 are both connected to an AND gate N 5 which is connected by an amplifier V 4 with the electromagnetic brake B. 
OPERATIONS Card Input and Positioning Card 58 has on the magnetizable portion 85 data which are to be processed in computer RSW, but also recordings indicating the next line at which the card has to be stopped, and the number of the next line to be processed is recorded in complementary form on the magnetizable strip 85. Since counter Z has a maximum capacity of 63, the number of the next line is stored as the complementary value to the number 63. For example, if the next line of the card is line 15, the complementary value, namely 48, is recorded on the magnetizable strip 85. 
 The card is positioned on table 57 with a lateral edge abutting guide wall 45 and displacing the end portions of feeler levers 61 and 62 so that the same open a path for the light rays of the source of light 223 to the photocell 224 so that light barrier LS 1 generates a signal transmitted through line 120 to the computer RSW. In accordance with the program, it is now determined whether one of the routing magnets WEI, WA I, WE II, and WA II, is energized. If this is not the case, the processing of the preceding card has been completed, and the routing means 85a and 106 are in the normal position shown in FIG. 3. Under control of the program, the computer RSW produces a signal transmitted through line 121 and amplifier V 5 to the feed control electromagnet KK so that pressure rollers 50 and 51 press the card against the transporting rollers 42 and 44 in the card input station so that the card is held in the same in the correctly aligned position. It should be noted that in the event that the card is not abutting guide wall 45 and has not displaced both feeler levers 61 and 62, the light barrier LS 1 has not generated a signal so that feed control electromagnet KK cannot operate carrier levers 48, 49 by bar 52 for clamping and holding the card at the input station. 
Card Feeding The next command from programming means P is transmitted by computer RSW through line 122 to the flip-flop FF 1 so that its left side becomes conductive. This results in energizing of the forward feed clutch KB. The switching of flipflop FF 1 locks the AND gate N 5 so that brake B is de-energized. Motor 4 drives shaft 7, pulleys 8, 10, gears 16, 19, shaft 21, pulleys 22, 24 and feed control shaft 25 in the forward feeding direction. Shaft 25 drives by belts 31 and shafts 33 and 35 so that transporting rollers 42, 44, transporting rollers 74, 75, pressure rollers 83, 84, and transporting rollers 86 and 88 are driven and transport card 58 in the feeding direction. 
 Shafts 41 and 43 carry only one transporting roller 42 and 44, respectively, while several transporting rollers 74, 75, 86, 88 are respectively spaced in transverse direction on shafts 35, 25, 33, 87. In the event that a card 58 assumes a slanted position due to the one-sided transporting force applied by transporting rollers 44 and 42 before reaching the plurality of transporting rollers 74, one of the feeler levers 61 or 62 would be released by the lateral edge of the card, and light barrier LS 1 would indicate the disturbance by a signal so that pressure rollers 50, 51 would be withdrawn, and the feeding of the cards stopped. 
Readout After passing through the routing means 85a, the 
card is fed through the light barrier LS 2 which generlines Z, to Z, to the complementary value of the line read out by the readout head MK. 
 When the trailing edge of card 58 has passed the light barrier LS 2, and if during the continuous readout no error has been discovered, light barrier LS 2 transmits a signal through line 123 which, together with a pro gram command, is now used for energizing routing magnet WE I by way of amplifier 6 and line 127. When the card has completely passed routing means 85a and no error has been discovered, routing magnet WE I is energized and shifts routing means 85a to a position for guiding a return card under table 57 into receptacle 86 at a later time. On the other hand, the routing means 85a in the discharge position of FIG. 5b, prevents the feeding of another card from the input station 209, 57, 45. 
 The card is transported by pairs of transporting rollers 75, 74 through routing means 106 in the normal position an further in chute 94, 94' by pairs of transporting rollers 86, 89 and 88, 90 along a second path to the printing station 104, 105. 
Positioning for Printing When the leading edge of the transported card reaches the photoelectric sensing means LS 3, the line control strip 99 is sensed, and each bright mark 101 sensed by the photoelectric sensing means LS 3 generates a pulse which is transmitted by amplifier V, to the input E 2 of counter Z which is counted from the complementary value to which it was set, until reaching full capacity. At this moment, all output lines A, to A, of counter Z receive L signals, and the AND gate N 4 becomes conductive so that flip-flop FF 1, which was conductive on the left, is switched to the condition 0 L in which its right side is conductive. Since flip-flop FF 2 is anyway in the condition L O, the AND gate N 5 is actuated and brake B energized over amplifier V 4. At the same time, the switching of flip-flop FF 1 disconnects the card feed clutch KE so that the card is arrested and held between the transporting rollers 88, 90 in the position in which printing can take place in the required line. 
 Line spacing in forward and return direction can be effected by programming means P and storage means SP, and of computer RSW by means of counter Z when -a key of the keyboard T is operated. This operation is not an object of the present invention. 
ates a signal passing through line 123 to the computer RSW and indicates the presence of a card at the readout station so that computer RSW in accordance with a program command energizes magnetic head MK. The magnetizable strip 85 on the card 58 is transported through the readout station and passes readout head MK which reads out the information recorded on the magnetizable strip 85, and the read out data are transmitted by computer RSW under the control of the program of the programming means P, through line 125 into different storing members of electronic storage device SP. The first value recorded on the magnetizable strip 85 is the identification of the next line of the card in which data have to be processed. At the same time, this read out value is used for setting counter Z through Card Discharge When the card has been processed, a certain program of the programming means P is completed, and the program effects the reverse feeding of the card either under the control of the programming means, or under the control, of one of the function keys T1 to T6. In the latter case, operation of key T l transmits a signal through line 126 which selects in the programming means a particular subprogram controlling the card discharge. 
 When the card is transported in the reverse direction from the printing station and through the readout station, the card passes through light barrier LS 2 which generates a signal effecting, among other functions, energization of amplifiers for the magnetic head MK which now performs the function of a recording head, while a signal transmitted by line 128 energizes the clearing head LK. The number identifying the last processed line, which was stored in electronic storage means SP is transmitted to the computer RSW with a change corresponding to the number of line spacing operations which have taken place in the meantime, augmented by an additional unit for presetting the next following line for the next operation. For example, assuming that the last processed line was line 15, the record carrier strip 85 contained before the processing of the card, a recording representing the complementary value 48 of the line number 15 with reference to the maximum capacity of counter Z. If during the processing of the card, two line spacing operations were carried out in forward direction, the line number stored in electronic storage means SP is changed to 46. Before the card returns, the line value stored in electronic storage means SP is reduced by one unit to 45, which causes transport of the card to line 18 during the next processing of the card. It has to be considered that not only line 15, but also lines 16 and 17 were printed so that the next free line on the card is line 18, and the card must be stopped at the printing station in a position in which the next free line 18 is located in the printing plane defined by hammers 105. 
 Before the return of the card from the printing station, the complementary value of the next line to be printed is stored in storage means SP. 
 By a further program command signal, computer RSW switches flip-flop FF 2 over line 129 so that flipflop FF 2 is in the condition L. Electromagnetic brake B is de-energized, while card reverse clutch KR, see also FIG. 2, is energized over amplifier V 3. The transmission between motor 4 and feed control shaft 25 is reversed by the use of gears 12 and 13, so that feed control shaft 25, and shafts 33, 35 connected therewith, rotate in the opposite direction whereby the transporting rollers transport the card from the printing station in a reverse feeding direction. The card passes routing means 106 in the normal position and over erasing or clearing head LK so that all data on the record carrier strip 85 are erased since erasing head LK was connected by a control pulse generated by light barrier LS 2. The card then passes over magnetic head MK, which is now connected to be a recording head, and almost simultaneously through the light barrier LS 2. The magnetic head MK records the data stored in storage means SP during the preceding processing on the record carrier strip 85 of card 58. Finally, the magnetic head MK records the complementary value of the next following line which is to be imprinted, for example number 45 is recorded in binary form as L O L L 0 L". The light barrier LS continuously senses the presence or absence of a card at the readout and recording station, and when the card has passed completely through the light barrier LS 2, a second routing magnet WA I of routing means 85a, see FIGS. a and 5b, is energized over amplifier V after a certain delay, so that routing means 85a is turned to the discharge position of FIG. 5b and the card is guided under the table 57 and into the receptacle 86. After shifting of routing means 85a, a further program command signal transmitted by line 130 switches flip-flop FF 2 to the L 0 condition so that the AND gate N 5 becomes conductive, and electromagnetic brake B is energized over amplifier V 4, while the card reverse feed clutch is deenergized. A control signal is simultaneously returned over line 130 to the computer RSW which indicates that the apparatus is in its normal position of rest, so that another card can be fed. 
 It should be noted that a new card 58 may already be positioned at the input station 209 clamped by the pairs of rollers 45, 51 and 42, in a position of readiness, even before the preceding card has been discharged into receptacle 86. Since transporting rollers 42, 44 are driven by a transmission including the one-way clutch 35a, rollers 42 and 44 are at a standstill during the reverse feeding of the card which takes place during the card discharge. 
Listing of Accounts Accounting operations require the making of lists registering the balances of all accounts separated for credit and debit, and finally added. The apparatus of the invention permits listing operations by the use of routing means 106 which for this purpose is shifted to the position for guiding a card into the receptacle 107. Such shifting takes place under the control of a key T, which produces a control impulse of computer RSW to the respective routing electromagnet WE ll. Operation of key T closes a switch producing a pulse through line 126 which controls computer RSW so that a signal over line 131 and amplifier V 8 energizes routing electromagnet WE II of routing means 106 which assumes the position shown for routing means 85a in F IG. 5b. The operation of key T 6 effects activation of a specific subprogram for the listing whose program commands follow each other for controlling computer RSW. 
 The card at the input station is sensed by light barrier LS l which generates a signal transmitted to computer RSW and indicates the presence of a card. The card is clamped between the transporting rollers 44, 51 and 42, 50 by energizing feed control electromagnet KK over line 121 and amplifier V 5. Thereupon card feed clutch KE is energized over line 122 so that the transporting rollers transport a card in forward feeding direction through routing means 85a in the normal position to the light barrier LS 2 which energizes the amplifier for magnetic head MK over line 124 so that the values recorded on record carrier strip 85 are read out and entered in the electronic storage means SP by way of computer RSW. By further program command, these values can be taken from storage means SP, and printed at the printing station by printing means 104, 105. The card passes through the routing means 106 which is in the position for guiding the card into the receptacle 107. 
 When the trailing edge of the card has passed through the photoelectric sensing means LS 2, a signal is transmitted to computer RSW so that feed control electromagnet KK is de-energized, and another card can be supplied at the input station. With a certain delay caused by the distance between the photoelectric sensing means or light barrier LS 2 and the routing means 106, the placing of a new card at the input station is thus permitted. The delay is of such duration that it is assured that the card has passed through routing means 106 before a new card is clamped by pressure rollers 50, 51 under the control of the feed control electromagnet KK. It will be seen that a card transported along a first path through the readout and recording station, is guided by routing means 106 in the normal position to a second path leading to the printing means 104, 105 and in the shifted position shown for routing means a in FIG. 5b, along a third path to receptacle 107. Assorting of Cards The provision of two routing means 85a and 106 make assorting of the cards possible. The processing of accounts, such as the entry of values from vouchers on the account, is not always manually done. Frequently, the vouchers which have to be processed are replaced by a punched card or by a punched tape, and the entering of the respective values takes place in an automatic operation. In this event, the cards are supplied to the input means in the order of the account numbers. The account numbers of the punch cards or punch tape and the sensing of the account number of card 58 in the readout station by magnetic head MK permits the control of the routing means 106 in accordance with a specific sub-program in such a manner that all account cards, on which no entries have to be made, are deposited in the receptacle 107, while the other account cards, on which entries were made, are transported through routing means 106 in the normal position of FIG. 3 so that they are fed to the printing station where they are imprinted with the new data and then returned by reversing of the transporting roller until guided by the shifted routing means 85a into receptacle 86. 
 The distance between the magnetic head MK and the printing station 104, 105 is so great that even the largest used card has passed completely through the readout station before a portion thereof arrives at the printing station. By suitably forming the line control strip 99 to 103, see FlG. 8 and by a specific sub-program, it is possible to arrest card 58 before it arrives in the printing position, and to print certain data read out from record carrier strip 85 on a paper tape 104a consisting of interconnected forms, whereupon card 58 is transported into its printing position with the respective line placed in the plane of the printing hammers 105, so that new data can be printed on the card. 
Summary The provision of routing means 850 and 106 cooperating with receptacles 86 and 107 makes it possible to use the apparatus for assorting of cards, and for listing the balances of accounts. By suitably'controlling the routing means, cards can be deposited in a predetermined order. For example, one receptacle 86 can be used for receiving all account cards in which the balance has been changed, while the other receptacle 107 can be used for depositing all account cards where the balance has not been changed. The latter account cards need not be transported to the printing station, but can be automatically discharged and collected in the receptacle 107. 
 When the apparatus is used for making lists of the account balances, recordings are read out from the record carrier strip 85 of card 58, and the read out data are entered into storage means SP of computer RSW. When the apparatus is used for making lists, all cards can be run through the readout station and deposited into receptacle 107 without the necessity of transporting the card first to the printing station. The information of the data read out from the respective cards can be printed on a paper band 104a so that of all data recorded on the cards, for example the last balance of the accounts, can be listed and printed without transporting the cards to the printing station. 
 It will be understood that each of the elements described above, or two or more together, may also find a useful application in other types of data processing apparatus differing from the types described above. 
 While the invention has been illustrated and described as embodied in a card routing and assortingapparatus having a plurality of routing means and card receptacles, it is not intended to be limited to the details shown, since various modifications and structural changes may be made without departing in any way from the spirit of the present invention. 
 What is claimed as new and desired to be protected by Letters Patent is set forth in the appended claims. 
 1. Card routing apparatus comprising a manually served input station for receiving a plurality of cards; a readout station having transducers responsive to indicia on said card; a receptacle in the proximity of said input station; routing means located between said input station and said readout station and being shiftable between a normal position for guiding a card in a forward feed direction from said input station to said readout station, and a discharge position for guiding a card when being fed in a reverse feed direction from said readout station into said receptacle, and including means for blocking in said discharge position, the movement of other cards out of said input station in said forward feed direction; first transporting means for transporting a card in said forward feed direction from said input station toward said readout station; second transporting means for transporting the card in said forward feed direction through said readout station, and being reversible for transporting the card through said readout station in said reverse feed direction to be guided by said routing means in said discharge position so that the card is discharged into said receptacle; and drive means for driving said first and second transporting means simultaneously in said forward feed direction to feed said card in saidforward direction, and for driving said second transporting means in said reverse feed direction to feed said card in said reverse direction. 
 2. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said drive means include a one way clutch connecting said second transporting means with said first transporting means. 
 3. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said routing means is biased to said normal position; comprising control means including a first routing electromagnet for moving said routing means to said discharge position; arresting means for holding said routing means in said discharge position, and a second routing electromagnet for releasing said arresting means so that said routing means returns to said normal position. 
 4. Card routing apparatus comprising an input station for receiving a plurality of cards; a readout station; a receptacle in the proximity of said input station; routing means located between said input station and said readout station and being shiftable between a normal position for guiding a card in a forward feed direction from said input station to said readout station, and a discharge position for guiding a card when being fed in a reverse feed direction from said readout station into said receptacle, and including means for blocking in said discharge position, the movement of other cards out of said input station in said forward feed direction; first transporting means for transporting a card in said forward feed direction from said input station toward said readout station; second transporting means for transporting the card in said forward feed direction through said readout station, and being reversible for transporting the card through said readout station in said reverse feed direction to be guided by said routing means in said discharge position so that the card is dis-. charged into said receptacle; drive means for driving said first and second transporting means simultaneously in said forward feed direction to feed said card in said forward direction, and for driving said second transporting means in said reverse feed direction to feed said card in said reverse direction; a printing station; third transporting means for transporting the card from said readout station; a second receptacle; and second routing means located between said second and third transporting means in the region of said second receptacle, and having a normal position for guiding cards from said second transporting means to said third transporting means in said forward feed direction and for guiding cards returned from said printing station by said third transporting means in said feed direction, to said second transporting means in said readout means, and having a discharge position for guiding to said second receptacle, a card transported in said forward direction by said second transporting means; and control means for moving said first and second routing means between said positions of the same so that selected cards are deposited in said first and second receptacles. 
 5. An apparatus as claimed in claim 4 wherein said card has a record carrier portion having recordings representing data; wherein said readout station includes a magnetic head for reading out said recordings; wherein said control means include storage means for storing said data; wherein said printing station has printing means controlled by said control means to print read out data while said card is guided by said second routing means away from said printing station and into said second receptacle. 
 6. An apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein the distance between said readout station and said printing station is greater than the length of the card so that the trailing portion of the card transported in the forward feed direction has left said readout station before the leading portion thereof arrives at said printing station. 
 7. An apparatus as claimed in claim 4 wherein said input station includes a card table and a vertical guide wall for guiding one lateral edge of a card at said input station; wherein said input station and said first transporting means form a first unit; wherein said readout station and said second transporting means form a second unit; and wherein said printing station and said third transporting means form a third unit. 
 8. An apparatus as claimed in claim 7 wherein said third unit includes means for supplying a paper sheet to said printing station for printing thereon information read out from said cards at said readout station. 
 9. An apparatus as claimed in claim 7 wherein said guide wall is located at the left of said table; and wherein said control means includes a keyboard located at the right of said table for convenient manual operation. 
10. Card routing apparatus comprising a manually served input station for receiving a plurality of cards; a readout station having transducers responsive to indicia on said card; a printing station; transporting means for transporting cards from said input station through said readout station to said printing station in a forward feed direction, and from said printing station through said readout station in a reverse feed direction; routing means between said readout station and said printing station, said routing means having a normal position connecting said readout station with said printing station for the passage of cards, and a discharge position for guiding a card to a discharge position when said card is fed to said routing means in said forward feed direction from said readout station; means for supplying a copy sheet to said printing station so that inform ation read out from a card by said readout means is printed at said printing station on said copy sheet while the readout card is guided by said routing means in said discharge position to said discharged position; and means for shifting said routing means between said discharge position and said normal position so that other cards can be transported to and from said printing station while said routing means is in said normal position. 
 11. Card routing apparatus comprising a manually served input station for receiving a plurality of cards; a readout station having transducers responsive to indicia on said card; a printing station; transporting means for transporting cards from said input station through said readout station to said printing station in a forward feed direction, and from said printing station through said readout station in a reverse feed direction; routing means between said readout station and said printing station, said routing means having a normal position connecting said readout station with said printing station for the passage of cards, and a discharge position for guiding a card to a discharged position when said card is fed to said routing means in said forward feed direction from said readout station; means for supplying a copy sheet to said printing station so that information read out from a card by said readout means is printed at said printing station on said copy sheet while the read out card is guided by said routing means in said discharge position to said discharged. position; means for shifting said routing means between said discharge position and said normal position so that other cards can be transported to and from said printing station while said routing means is in said normal position and another routing means for guiding said other cards when transported in said reverse feed direction to another discharged position, and having a shifted position for guiding cards in said forward feed direction from said input means to said readout station. 
* t IF