Method of and apparatus for multiplying and integrating variables 
US-2839149-A
Phillips Petroleum Co
1958-06-17
https://patents.google.com/patent/US2839149A/en
Junie 17, 1958 R G, PIETY RATUS FOR MULTIPLYING METHOD OF AND A'PPA AND INTEGRATING VARIABLES 3 Sheets-Sheet 1 Filed May 19. 1950 SEISMIC RECORDING mg F AMPLIFIER CHANNEL NO.| NO.I 
 SEISMIC RECORDING T SEISMOME ER AMPLIFIER CHANNEL c- No.2 o 2 No.2 
 SEISMIC RECORDING sEIsMoMETER AMPLIFIER CHANNEL NO. 8 o 8 No 8 FIG. 
FIGIZ. 29 
. INVENTOR. 
 R. c. PlETY RECORDER wmz ATTORNEYS June 17, 1958 R. G. PIETY 2,839,149 
 METHOD OF AND APPARATUS FOR MULTIPLYING AND INTEGRATING VARIABLES Filed May 19. 1950 z Sheets-Sheet 2 FIG. 4. 
F/G. 4a 
FIG. '4 b FIG. 40 
FIG. 4e 
 INVENTOR. R.G.PIETY A T TORNEVS Jul 1e 17, 1958 P ETY 2,839,149 
 R. G. I METHOD OF AND APPARATUS FOR MULTIPLYING AND INTEGRATING VARIABLES Filed May 19, 1950 3 Sheets-Sheet 3 INVENTOR. 
R. G. PIETY ATTORNEYS United States PateiitOfiice 2,839,149 Patented June 17, 1958 Mnrnon'on AND APPARATUS FOR MUliTl- PLYING AND INTEGRATING VARIABLES Raymond G. Piety, Bartlesville, Okla., assignor to Phillips Petroleum Company,-a corporation of Delaware Application May 19, 1950, Serial No. 162,986 29 Claims. 01. 1s1 .s 
This invention relates to computers. In one specific aspect, it relates to apparatus for thealgebraic multipli-z the functions jointly controlling the amount of light pass ing from a source to a radiation-sensitive device,.such as a photoelectric cell. In such devices, rather complicated mechanism has been required to properly carry out the algebraic multiplication. This arises from the-fact, that multiplication of two positive quantities or two negative quantitiesyields a positive result whereas multiplication of a positive quantity and a negative quantity yields a i a negative result. 
 This problem, in the ipast, hasbeen approached by utilizing a plurality of films or other recording media-for each function. The regions where both functions are positive or both functions are negative were separately multiplied and summed to provide the positive portion of the result and a separate multiplication and summation was made of the portions of the two functions where one function was positive and the other negative to 'provide the negative portion of the result. The positive and negative portions were then subtracted from each other to yield the algebraic product of the functions. It is quite evident that such a procedure requires a rather complicated apparatus in separately multiplying and summing different parts of the functions. In addition, difficulties arise and a great deal of time is consumed in producing a pluralityof records of the same function. In accordance with my invention, proper algebraic multiplication of the functions is obtained with only one record of each function, and there is no necessity for providing :separate elements 'of the apparatus for obtaining-the positive and negative portions of the result. 
 The computer of myinvention is. particularly suitable for the recording of seismic signals and for the transfor: mation of the recorded signals in such fashion as to greatly increase the amount of information obtainable therefrom. Heretofore, seismic signals produced 'bydetonation of anexplosive charge at'a shot point have been picked up, after reflection from subterranean strata, by seismometers which produce an electrical output representative of the seismic wavesincident thereon. These signals have been fed to a recording device which produces'a direct rccord'of theseismometcr output. Ordinarily, a number'of seismometersare positioned in a pre-' determined geometric array and the seismometer signals are recorded at a common recorder unit. 
The seismic signals thus recorded are complex waves which are made up of many'components. The wave form produced by the reflection from a'discontinuity, such as the interface between two formations may be identified with a considerable degree of accuracy by statistical analysis. If the reflections were spaced a considerable distance apart, this wave form could be readily distinguished upon the recording medium and the reflection from the same discontinuity could be followed upon the records of the several seismometers in the array. However, this is seldom, if ever, the case. Ordinarily, refiections are spaced so closely together that the reflection patterns from a numberof discontinuities are superposed to form a Wave of'complex character. Thus, the simple reflections, which are hereinafter referred to as elementary events, cannotbe identified with any substantial degree of precision upon the seismometer records. The interpretation of the recordings is further complicated by the fact that surface Waves, random disturbances produced by wind and the falling of debris to the earth as a result of the detonation of the charge, also appear upon the seismometer records and make the identification of elementary events a matter of great complexity. Efforts have been made to improve the usefulness of seismic records. These improvements have involved filters, other tuning systems, seismometers of higher sensitivity, and methods of mixing signals from different seismometers to eliminate unwanted waves, such as surface waves. Although these techniques greatly improved the usefulness of data obtained from seismic records, such records still yeld insufiicient information concerning elementary events to enable the records to be interpreted with a high degree of precision. In accordance with my invention, seismicsignals are fedtoa novel recording device which produces a photo- I graphic record of the seismic signals, upon a transparent medium. The recordings thus produced may be considered to represent a mathematical relationship between time and the amplitude ofthe seismicsignals. This methematical function is multiplied by a second predeter mined mathematical function also recorded upon a transparent medium and the results of this multiplication are integrated over' a predetermined range to yield a transformed output, either for one seismometer or for each seismometer in the array; By proper choice of the second predetermined function the seismometer output may be transfomed in a manner equivalent to passing the seismoter output through an ideal electrical filter. Alternatively, the outputs of any desired seismometers may be multiplied by a chosen weighting function. Finally, the function representing the seismometer output may be correlated either with itself or with a function representing an ideal elementary event to determine with a high degree of precision the exact time of occurrence of elementary events in the original seismometer signal. The multiplication and integration of functions just referred-to are carried out in a simple manner without involving the use of complicated mechanical expedients for carrying out algebraic multiplication. and integration o f'the functions. Furthermore, by the use of the techniques of this invention, any two functions may be multiplied and integrated, and these functions may either be mathematical functions or the output of any measuring instrument to which it is desired to apply a mathematical-transformation. I 
 It is an object of the invention to provide an improved apparatus for multiplying a plurality of functions and integrating these functions to effect a desired mathematical transformation thereof. 
 It is a further object to provide a method of and apparatusfor correlating a seismic record either with elementary events appearing in the record itself or with an ideal elementary event having a'wave forin determined by statisticalconsiderations. 
, creasing the amount of information obtainable from seismic records. a a i It is a still further object to provide apparatus for transforming seismometer outputs by mathematical operations which is equivalent to passing the seismometer output through an ideal electrical filter. i 
It is a still further object to provide apparatus vfor mixing theoutputs of seismometers, each output being i photographic emulsion, awavy" band of one-half the multiplied by achosen weighting function. 
' Various other objects, advantages and features of invention will become apparent from the followingidetailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, inwhichfl p Figure 1 is a block diagram of the recording system of my invention; I 
 Figures 2 and 3 are schematic nel of the recording} apparatus; 
 Figures 4 and 4a to 4e, inclusive, are graphs illustrating the mathematical multiplication of two functions; Figire 5 is a schematic view illustrating a method of producing a modified recording of a function} -ligure 6 is a diagrammatic view illustratin'gzthe reproducingapparatus; a Figure 7 is a schematic gration of the product of two functionsp and Figure 8 is a view illustrating the optical system of the reprodueer unit. 
 Referring now to the drawings in detail-and particularly to Figure 1, the outputs of a pluralityofseismometers-10a, 101 Q, 1011 are fed through seismic amplifiers 11a; 11b, 11n to l the respective: recording channels 12a, 12b, 12n of my; invention. Although diagrams of one chandiagram illustrating the inte shifted rightwardly, Figure 3, by an amount which is proportional to the amplitude of the seismic signal. The 
 amplitude of the signals is so regulated that the strongest Theband produced upon H i trated'immore detail by Figures 4a and 4b. In these theapparatus will be described'inconnectibn with the recording and transformation of seismic signals, th'e application of. the apparatus to other uses will become apparent frorn the following description. Each-recording channel l2-inc ludes L a galvanometer 13, Figure 2, "the mirrorofwhich is pivotally mounted and rotated through a small angular rangeby the seismic signals fed to the galvanometer from the amplifier 11. Thati s, the angular displacement of the galvanometer mirror is proportional to the amplitude of-the signals fed to thegalvanometer by the amplifier. A galvanometer suitable for use in the apparatus of this invention is disclosed in thecopending application of R.-M. Ransier. and G. B. Way, SerialNo. 185,356, filed September 18, 1950, entitled Galvanometer, now Patent No -2,729,789. l Y .An optical system is provided in conjunction with.the galvanometer 13 which includes a light source 14, a condensing lens15," a slit assembly 16, aplane mirror 17, asmirror 13a forminga part of the galvanometer 13, and "a plate 18 of glass or other transparent'material. 
 Thus, the light beam from source 14 is condensed by the lens, 15 and the assembly 16 produces an elongated very thin pencil of light which is reflected by rnirrors 17 V and13a upon the plate 18. The surface ofyplate 18 is coated with a photographic emulsion which is sensitized to the light beam produced by the so'iirce14 and reflectedthereon by the optical system. When no seismic signal is impressed upon the galvanometer, it -is biased toga central or rest position by suitable springs," notshown,; so that the thin beam of lightis positioned at the center. of the plate 18. .When a positivesignal is impressedupon the galvanometer by theseismic amplifier, the galvanometer pivots and the light beamisdisplaced leftwardly, Figure 3. ,Dueto the small angle through which the galvanometenmoves, the linear displacement; of-thebeam, is very closely proportional toj the signal. 
is impressed upon the galvanometer, "theilightibeam fi signal to be recorded does not cause either siderof the recorded band 19 tomove beyond either side of the plate 18 nor does either side of the band pass beyond the centenline 20 of the plate 18. Accordingly, in a preferred embodiment, the width of the band, 19 is one-half that 'of the plate .18. V 
 During the recording period, the plate 18 is moved longitudinally past thegalvanometer at a predetermined rate of speed. Asa resultythe beam of; light reflected from galvanometer 13 produces, after development of the agureenmu be notedlthat the sides 21, 22 of the band are parallel, since the lighflbea'm produced by slitas sembly 16"is of constantwidth. Furthermore, each side portion 21, 22 representsjthe mathematical relationship between tinie' and amplitudeindicated by graph 23, Figure 4a, with reference'tofthe respective axes 24 and25 which are positiohedl1alf"way between center line 20 and thej sides ofplate18. At; the ordinate represented r by vertical line 26a, theseis'mic signal iszeroand the band 19extends. from axis 24 to axis 25. That is, the bandis positioned exactly at' the center of the plate 18. At ordinates 26b and 260, "a positive signal is applied to the' galvanometer and the-band 19 is, accordingly} shifted upwardly with respect to center line20 and axes 24;25; Ordinate 26b corresponds to a positivevalue of v "16 unit for thefunction andft will be noted that the i curve represented by the QsideiZI of the band is positioned .6 unit above axis 24 while,simi1arly, thecurve repre-[j sented bythe side 22bf. theband is'position'ed 16 unit aboveaxis 25. j The ordinates 26d-and 26'erepresented negative signals applied to thegalvanometer-from the seismic amplifier and, accordinglyythe band 19-is shifted tioned .7 unit below axis 24 whilethe cur'verepresented a by the side 22 is positioned .7 unitbelow the axis 25. 
 Thus, the'band IWrepres'ents themathematical relationship betweenthe seismometerfoutp'ut and time represented by curve23; When radiation is passed through the plate,5 at each eIement orSordinatc, the .upper half trackor zone 18a transmits a proportion of the radiation incident thereon which is determined by the width of the non-opaque portion of the zone at. that element. 
It the zone 18a be considered to have a reference or constant transrnissionwhen the ordinate of the ,curve representedjon the plate is zer'opthat isfwheh band 19 is, positionedat thei exact center of'theplate it will be evident that thejtransmissionof the zone 18avaries,with.. 
respect to the constant or reference transmission, in accordance withuhe negative en the values of function 23. Similarly, the transmission ofilower half track or zone 18b varies, with respectlto-said constant or reference transmission, in accordancewith the values of the function 23. A-sirnilar opticalgsystem is provided in each of the channels 12b to"12n,inclusive, and the opaque bands produced by thedescribed optical system for each seismometer are recorded in 'de-bygside relationship upon. 
the sensitized plate 18.. .y Inaccordance with the invention, the function repre- .sented by the seismometer outputis multiplied by a predetermined function 28, Figure'4c, and the products of these functions are integratedw'lhe function 28 may i v represent the characteristic of an ideal electrical filter or .itsywave. t-form flmayji representan ideal elementary event,.;as determined ,lfromgstatistical jconsiderations.- HA-llighter, that is, more transparent. 
ternatively, the function 28 may represent a weighting function by which the output of the seismometer is to be multiplied. The weightedoutput may be mixed with the output of a second seismometer, which may be a rotational seismometer responsive only to rotational seismometer responsive only-,to rotational earth movements and not to translational earth movements. In this case, the mixed output represents a wave from which components representative of ground rollor surface waves have been eliminated. The manner in which the seismometer outputs are mixedis described in detail inv my copending application, Serial No. 49,081, filed September 13, 1948, and now abandoned, entitled Method of and Apparatus for Seismic Exploration. Alternatively, the mixing may take place in the optical system of the computer. It should be further pointed out that, where the function 28' represents an ideal elementary event, the computer of this invention determines the correlation between this ideal elementary event and elementary events appearing on the original record, even though several such events are superposed. Where the function 28 represents a part of the original seismometer recording, the autocorrelation function is utilized to determine where wave forms appearing in selected parts of the record are repeated in other parts of the record. 
 Preferably in accordance with the invention, the function 28 is recorded upon a variable density track 29, Figure 4d, which is divided into two half tracks 29a, 29b by a center line 30. Where the function represented by curve 28 has a zero value, both the upper and lower half tracks have a reference shade or hue which is a predetermined shade of 'gray, this condition being illustrated at the ordinate 26a. As the function assumes successively larger positive values, as in the region between ordinates 26a and 26b, the upper half track 29a becomes progressively darker, that is, more opaque than the reference shade while the lower half-track becomes progressively Where the function reaches a large positive value, as at ordinate 2612, the upper half track is nearly'opaque whilethe lower half track is nearly transparent. 7 Similarly, when the function 28 assumes a negative value, the lower half track becomes darker or more opaque than the reference hue, the increment opacity being proportional to the negative value assumed by the. function, while the upper half track becomes more transparent than the reference hue, the degree of transparency being proportional to the negative value .of the function. The word; proportional and its derivatives is used in a broad sense in the specification and appended claims. At ordinate 26d, for example, which represents a large negative value of the function, the lower half track is nearly opaque while the upper half track is nearly transparent. Thus, the opacity of the upper'half track or:zone 29a varies, with'respe ct to the reference or constant opacity determined by the reference hue or shade of grey, in accordance with the positive values of the function 28, while the opacity of the lower half track or zone 29b varies with respect to such reference hue or opacity, in accordance with the negative values of the function 28. 
 One method of. making such a variable density plate is illustrated in Figure in which the function .to be recorded on the track is represented by a plateor mask-31 having a cut out portion 32'which is representative of-the function to be recorded. Thus, at a typical'ordinat'e33, where the function has a positive value; the distance be tween the center line 34 of cut out portion 32 and the upper edge 35 is proportional. to the magnitude of the function at that ordinate. Similarly, at a typical negative ordinate 36, the edge 37 of the cut out portion 32 is displaced below centerdin'e 34 by an amount which is proportional to the negative value of the function at that ordinate; Positioned below the plate 31 is a second plate or mask 38 having a slot 39 formed therein of the same 41 formed in a frame structure 42 at a constant rate of speed. Initially, of course, the lower part 43 of plate 41-covers the slot 39 so that no light can pass through to the sensitized emulsion on 'plate 40. As the cut out portion 32 moves over the slot 39, each element of plate 40 is exposed to radiation for a length of time which is directly proportional to the width of the cut out portion 32 overlying such element. Thus, at ordinate 33,- the cut out portion 32 is wide and, consequently, the element of plate 40 behind this ordinate is exposed over a long interval with the result that the plate, after development, is s'ubstantially opaque at this region. In contrast, at negative ordinate 36, the'cut out portion 32 is narrow and the element of plate 40 underlying this element is exposed only a short length of time, with the result that it is nearly transparent after the photographic emulsion is developed. The sensitivity of the emulsion is, of course, adjusted so that the reference hue of grayness is obtained when the width of cut out portion 32 is one-half the width of the half track being formed, which corresponds to a zero ordinate for the function being recorded. Consequently, after the plate 31 is moved downwardly, as described, and the photographic emulsion is developed, the upper half track 29a is formed upon sensitized plate 40, this half track having a reference hue of gray when the function represented by mask 31 has a zero value, the half track increasing in opacity as the function assumes positive values and becoming more transparent as the function assumes negative values. 
 After recording the upper half track in the described manner, the plate is moved to a position where the lower half track 2% is positioned directly beneath slot 39. Thereupon, a second plate or mask 44 is passed downwar'dly through the slots 41 to record the lower half track upon the film. To this end, the plate 44 has a cut out portion 45 whichis complementary to the cut out portion 32 of plate 31. That is, at 'any given ordinate, such as ordinate 33, the width of cut out portion 45 plus the width of the cut out portion 32 is equal to the total width of the half track. Accordingly, at an ordinate 33, where the function has a large positive value, the cut out portion 45 is narrow while the cut out portion 32- is wide and, at an ordinate 36, where the function has a large negative value, the cut out portion 45 is wide while the cut out portion 32 is narrow. Consequently, as the plate 44 is moved downwardly past slot 39 with the light source energized, the lower half track 2% is formed upon plate 49, this half track being complementary to half track 29a ,in'the sense that, as half track 29a becomes more opaque, half track 29b becomes more transparent, and vice versa. It is convenient, in the actual forming of the variable density plate to record a number of tracks upon the plate 44) and then develop them simultaneously. 
 In the reproducer mechanism illustrated by Figure 8, the tracks 18, 29 are superposed and light from a source 47 is passed through a condenser lens 48 through both plates to a condenser lens 49 which focuses the radiation upon a photoelectric cell 50. The source 47 has a fila wave 52 of sinusoidal characteristic and a straight reference line 53 which registers with a reference line,54 on plate 40 to permit accurate alignment of these plates in the apparatus. For each function recorded in the spaces 51, there is a corresponding.functionrecorded on the corresponding zones 55a, 55b, 55n of the plate 40, the variable density zones havinglfunctions recorded thereon as set forth in connection with Figure 5. The described apparatus functions to multiply each corresponding set 51, 55 of functions and integrate the products over a preselected range of integration. In the ease of a seismic system, the outputs of the respective seismometers are recorded at the respective zones 51 while the zones 55 are variable density recordings of the same oridifierent functions with which it is desired to operate upon the seismometer outputs. t 
 Due to the described arrangement of filament 47 and the condenser lenses 48, 49, the light incidentupon each individual element of a variable density recording on plate 40 passes through a corresponding element fof a variable area recording on plate 18, after which the radiation is collected by lens 49 and focused upon photoelectric cell 50. At each such element of the plates18 40, the light is partially absorbed and partially transmitted depending upon the opacity of plate 40 at that element and the position of the band 51 at that element. In accordance with the invention, the total light transmitted through both plates is directly proportional to the algebraic product of the values of the functions at that element. i i 
 This will become evident upon a study of Figure 4 in which, at ordinate 26a, where both functions 23 and 28 are zero, the'upper half tracle2 4 transmits a quantity proportional to one-half the light incident thereon and, similarly, the upper half track 29a transmits a quantity proportional to one-half the light incidentthereon. Thus, the two upper half tracks 18a and 29a superimposed transmit a quantity proportional to one rth uni-Lot light where, for convenience, the unit 1 representsdthe quantity of light incident upon a typical elenientiofthe plates. Similarly, it will be evident that'the two lower half tracks 18b and 295,, in combination,-transmit a quantity proportional to one-fourth of a light unit. Thus, the total radiation passing to the photoelectric cell through the element represented by ordinate 26a is the sum of the upper and lower one-fourth units or one-half-unit which, evidently, corresponds to a zero jv-alue for the multiplied functions, since both functions are zero. At a general ordinate 26 it will be assumedfor purposes of illustrationthat the ordinate of function. 23 is ia" and the ordinate of function 28 is b. It alsov will be assumed that W is a constant depending upon the width and inherent transmission characteristics of plate 18 while R is a constant depending on the properties of the coating material on plate 291 together with its inherent transmission characteristics, A 
 -In particular, assumingplate 18 to be*p'erfectly transparent and the exposed part of the coating to be perfectly opaque, at ordinate 26f, the transparent portion of half track 18a is 3 t units in length (noting that thezero reference line is at the center of half track 18a), and the proportion 0 light transmtited there through is equal to r where W is equal to and w represents the total width of the plate 18 which is four unitsl If the plateis not perfectly transparent nor. 
b t l-$01 Assuming that the. coatingon plate 29 variesi-frorn perfect transparency 109a. transmission r, track 29a, 29b transmits of the light incident, thereonwhen the coating is at reference hue. At the generalordinate 26f, the transmission ofhalf track,29a is 11" units lessthan the reference hue,- which reference hue has been defined as a light transmission of l. Accordingly, the transmission of half track 29a is Similarly, the transmissionof half track 29b is "12 units greater than the reference hue, thatis It isfarbitrarily definedthatr ff (the total width ofplate. 
of half track 18d to"=the'photoelectric cell "50, the rest of the light being absorbed by the coatings upon the plates in accordancewith the valuesof the functions at the element under consideration. Thus, the'lighflpassing' through both half tracks 29a," 18w is representative of f the product-10f dividual half tracks 18a, 29a, that is, i 
the light transmitted through the inhalf track 18b to the. photoelectric cell 50, the amount passing through both half tracksibeing respreseutative of the product of; thalighttran'smittedlthrough the individual halftracks 18a, 29a, that is, i 
each half The dilference between this product and reference hue of /2 is which when multiplied by the constant'Zgives This final transmission term is of course numerically equal to the product -of thefactor "a" and b, modified onlyby the transmission constants 'R, W. When the cell 50 is properly connected to a recorder, the recording medium indicates directly, by suitable calibration, the product of the functions. The above described multiplication process is summarized in ment represented by each such ordinate is proportional to a constant plus the algebraic productof the ordinates of the function'at that element. The final product for each ordinate is obtained by substituting the values of a"and b from the groups 4 and 40, respectively, into the general .formulation under the heading General 10 Ordinate, it being noted that both R and W are numerically equal to unity. Ordinate 2612 represents a positive value for both functions, and, accordingly, the resulting value is positive, as indicated by graph 4e. At ordinates 26c and 262, oneifunction is positive and the other function is negative so that the product is negative, as clearly appears from the table and Figure 42. At ordinate 26d, both functions are negative so that the product is positive, as also clearly appears from the table and graphs. It will be apparent, therefore, that the apparatus of Figure g8 produces an algebraic multiplication of the functions 23 and 28, the product being obtained separately for each element of the functions. It will be understood that the photo-electric cell may feed a conventional rec-order which is so adjusted as to produce a zero indication when the .25 Photoelectric cell output is at its reference value established whenboth-fun-ctions are zero. 
 Referring now to Figure 7, it will be evident that the total output'of the photoelectric cell 50 represents the sum of all the elemental products obtained by multiplying the ordinates of the elements of function 23 by the corresponding ordinates representing similar elements of function '28 That .is, the photoelectric cell output represents the integral of the product of the two functions over thezrange determined by the length of the superposed the following table under the heading General Ordina'te: portions of plates 18, 29 which are exposed to the light Ordinates General Ordlnete 26b 26c 26d 268 0 Upper half track M (1- l 2 85 7 a Lower half track 9t (1+ 8 875 15 3 b 75 1 Upper half track 9t (1 1 775 b Lower half track is H 9 22s 25 9 P d t er half tracks 3/ 1--- .02' .097 .638. .07 
re uc app 7 4 W R R W P duct lower but tracks 14 l+++ 72 196 .037 .-27 
m W R RW Sum of products ;(1+ .74 .29 .675 34 Reference 2 .50 .500 500 50 Difference between sum of prod- 24 207 16 nets and reference. 2 p 
 ab 414 350 32 Difierence Doubled RW 43 o I: v 
loo-0(1) ab 4s 41s ."as 32' When the beam produced by source d'lyis-a narrow slit, and cell 50 is connected to a recorder, the plates .18., 29 can be moved together in a longitudinal path through the space between lenses 48 and 49, the recorder trace thus producing a continuous graph of the product of the two functions. 7 
 The table also shows numericalvalues for fourtypical ordinates 26b, 26c,'26d, and 262, from which it will be evident that the light'reaching the cell 50 from the elebeam. Thus, referring to Figure 7, and assuming that variabledensity plate 40 has a length T, this plate being 0 superposed 'over the first T units of length of plate. 18, 
 Assuming that plate 18 is shifted rightwardly a distance to the position indicated in dotted lines by reference character 18a, the output is represented by the following equation: 
P= f f( 1)a( and, similarly, if plate 18 is shifted tothe right, Figure 7, a distance of t; units to the position represented by dotted lines 18b, the output of the photoelectric cell is represented by the equation: 
 T =ff( z)g( plate 40 has the same shape as the function represented by plate 18. That is, the output is a measure of the correlation existing between the two functions. Evidently, 
where the function 40 represents an elementary event; 
the occurrence of maxima in the recorder output indicates the time of occurrence of elementary events in the seismograph record of plate 18. If the functions g and f are identical, the output of the photoelectric cell represents the auto-correlationfunction and has amaximum value when a portion of the function is repeated to a good approximation. 
 It will be understood that a similar optical system is provided for each seismograph when the apparatus of my invention is utilized in seismic work. In this manner, 
the output of each seismometer may be analyzed to de termine when elementary events occur therein, thus enabling the record to be analyzed with a much greater degree of accuracy than has heretofore been possible. In a practical seismograph recording system, the seismom eters are arranged at different distances from the shot point. Thus, the reflections from a givendiscontinuity appear later in time upon the seismometers further removed from the shot point, this displacement being referred to as step-out. In carrying out my invention, 
the relative positions of the seismometer records 51 upon plate 18 may be adjusted longitudinally as byusing a separate movable track section for each record together with suitable adjusting screws. This enables the operator to eliminate time variations resulting from step-out. 
 If a regular displacement occurs, proceeding from one' seismograph record to another one the plate, it will be caused not by step-out but by dip in the bed producing. 
the reflection. Accordingly, the apparatus of my invention enables the angleof dip of formation to be determined with a great degree of accuracy. v, x I In another aspect of the invention, the functions recorded on the variable density plates may be mathem'ab icalfunctions representing the transformations produced by an ideal electrical filter. In this case, the outpntpf the photoelectric cellfor each set of tracks .broPur: tional to the original seismometer output modifiediby oneseismometer is recordedupon the variable areaplate andthe output of another seismometer is recorded on th variable density plate, the output of the photoelectric cell represents the combined or mixed outputs of the two seismometers. The output of the photoelectric cell may, if desired, be utilized to produce a variable area track or a variable density track which may be utilized in combination with the record of a third seismometer to pro- 1 duce a combined or mixed output of three or even more seismometers. This same result'may be achieved optically by use of half-silvered mirrors which optically combine the transmission characteristics of three or even more optical paths; 
 Under actual operatingmonditions, the output of the seismic apparatus is the result of a multitude of effects of various origins. The initial shot sends of a dilatational wave, a shear wave and a surface wave. The dilatational wave is used in standard methods of prospects ing, while the shear wave is considered objectionable at present, and the surface wave is objectionable and will remain so, since it is propagated through the surface layers and is not influenced by structures below the surface. The wind causes objectionable ground motion by blowing against trees, rocks, fences and by blowing over the surface itself. The seismometers measure certain components of the resultantjof all these motions. 
 The dominant frequency of the surface waves varies between 5 and 30. cycles per second, and the dominant frequency of the. reflected dilatational wavelets varies from 20 to cycles per second. The wind gives components over the entire useful frequency range. By transforming the seismographrecord in a manner equivalent to operating uponitwith an ideal electrical filter, the components representative of surface waves are substantially eliminated, and the signal to noise ratio over random disturbances, such. as wind,is greatly improved. 
. Alternatively, the procedure: may consist of making a recording, determining the shape of its elementary event from the auto-correlation function computed by the machine, and transforming the recording subsequently intp a record such as would have been obtained if a tuning with ideal impulsive response had been used. This last operation is again performed by the reproducer. 
 It should be noted that in the results thus obtained the apparent tuning, usedtto obtain the final record, depends upon the elementary event, i. e., upon the motion of the ground during the recording. It is not possible to effect this dependency with any present system of seismographic recording. Althoughl am aware of systems in which a record is played back through an electrical system, the apparatus utilized is so complicated as to be of prohibitive cost for practical seismograph work. 
 Moreover, the important problem of synthesizing an ideal record where the sub-surface stratification is known or assumed, can be solved by the computer of my inven tion. If the sub-surface stratification is known, the theo retical disposition of the elementary events on the record 'can be computed. .Unit impulses are placed on these p may be solved properly recording the tunctionsl and, thejidealelectrical filter. v Furthermore ifthe output of calculated spots and this record is impressed upon the variablearea plate while the variable density plate has the elementary event recorded thereon. A record is ob: tained that consists of a sum ofelementary events, each in its'correct position, which is an ideal record for the assumed or known sub-surface stratification. 
 Although'the computerhas been described primarilyi'in connection with seismic work, it is extremely useful in other applications! For example, it has been explained that any equation of the form a =fft )a( combining them with the opticalapparatusof my inven} tion. By merely reversing the direction of movement of 13 the plate 18 through the apparatus of Figure 8, the solution to the following equationrnay he obtained T =ffo+o o a In mathematical parlance, equations of this type, which include the folding integral, the cross-correlation function, the auto-correlation function, the Duhamal integral and other similar equations, are important in network and mathematical theory and in many practical computations, the solutions to these equations having heretofore required long and tedious hand computation. I also contemplate that the variable density plate may have, in 
 addition to the density changes produced by the recordwith present, preferred embodiments thereof, it is to be understood that this description is illustrative only and is not intend-ed to limit the invention, the scope of which is defined by the appended claims. 
Iclaim: t 
 1. Apparatus for algebraically multiplying two variables which comprises, in combination, an elongated plate of radiation-transmitting material having an upper zone and a lower zone, the radiation transmission characteristics of the upper zone varying with respect to a standard transmission, in accordance with the positive values of a first function, the radiation transmission characteristics ofsaid lower zone varying, with respect to said standard transmission, in accordance with the negative values of said function, a second elongated plate of radiation-transmitting material having an upper zone and a lower zone, the radiation transmission characteristics ofsaid upper zone varying, with respect toastandard transmission, in accordancewith the positive values of a second function, 
the radiation transmission characteristics of the lower zone varying, with respect to said standard transmission, in accordance with the negative values of said function, a radiation detector, means for passing beams of radiation through selected portions of the upper zones of 'both plates to said detector, and means for passing beams of radiation through selected portions of both lower zones of said plates to said detector. H t 
 2. Apparatus for algebraically multiplying .two vari ables which comprises, in combination, an elongated plate of radiation-transmitting material having an upper zone and a lower zone, the radiation transmission characteristics of the upper zone varying, with respect to a standard transmission, in accordance with the positive values of a first function, theradiationtransmission characteristics of said lower zone varying, with respect to said standard transmission, in accordance with the negative values of said function, a second elongated plate of radiation-transmitting material having an upper 'zone and a lower zone, the radiation transmission characteristics of said upper zone varying, with respect to a standard trans- ,mission, in accordance with the positive values of a second function, the radiation transmission characteristics of the lower zone varying, with respect to a standard transmistion, a radiation detector, means for passing a thin beam sion, in accordance with the negative values of said funcof radiation through adjacent sections ofthe upper and 'lower zones and both of'said plates to'saidd-etector, and means for-effecting longitudinalmovement of both plates as a unit relative to said beamof radiation. 
 3. Apparatus for algebraically multiplying and integrating two'variables which comprises, in combination, an elongated plate of radiation-transmitting material having an upper zone'and a lower zone, the radiation transmission characteristics of the upper zone varying, with respect to a standard transmission, in accordance with the positive values of a first function, the radiation transmission'characteristics of said lower zone varying, with respect to said standard transmission, in accordance with the negative values of said function, a second elongated plate of radiation-transmitting material having an upper zone and a lower zone, the radiation transmission characteristics of said upper zone varying, with respect to a standard transmission, in accordance with the positive values of a second function, the radiation transmission characteristics of the lower zone varying, with respect to said standard transmission, in accordance with the negative values of said function, a radiation detector, means for passing parallel beams of radiation through selected portions of the upper zones of both plates to said detector, means for passing parallel beams of radiation through selected portions of both lower zones to said detector, and a recorder fed by said detector, said recorder being .calibratedto indicate directly the integral of the pro-duct of said functions over a preselected range of integration. 
 4. Apparatus for algebraically multiplying two variables which comprises, in combination, an elongated plate of radiation-transmitting material having an upper zone and a lower zone, the radiation transmission characteristics of the upper zone varying, with respect to a standard transmission, in accordance with the positive values of a first function, the radiation transmission characteristics of said lower zone varying, with respect to said standard transmission, in accordance with the negative values of said function, a second elongated plate of radiation-transmitting material having an upper zone and a lower zone, the radiation transmission characteristics of said upper zone varying, with respect to a standard transmission, in accordance with the positive values of a second function, the radiation transmission characteristics of the lower zone varying, with respect to said standard transmission in accordance with the negative values of said second function, a radiation detector, means for passing parallel beams of radiation through selected portions of the upper zones of both plates to said detector, means for passing parallel beams of radiation through selected portions of both lower zones to said detector, and means for moving one of said plates in a longitudinal path with respect to the other of said plates. 
 5. Apparatus for algebraically multiplying two variables which comprises, in combination, an elongated plate of radiation-transmitting material having an upper zone and a lower zone, the radiation transmission characteristics of the upper zone varying in accordance with a constant minus the values of a first function, the radiation transmission characteristics of the lower zone varying in accordance with said constant plus the values of said function, a second elongated plate of radiationtransmitting material having an upper zone and a lower zone, the radiation transmission characteristics of said upper 'zone varying in accordance with a constant minus the values of a second function, the radiation transmission characteristics of the lower zone varying in accordance with said second constant plus the values of said second function, a radiation detector, means for passing parallel beams of radiation through selected portions of the upper zones of both plates to said detector, and means for passing parallel beams of radiation through selected pcrtions'of both lower zones to said detector. 
 6. Apparatus for algebraically multiplying two variables which comprises, in combination, an elongated 15- plate of radiation-transmitting material having an upper zone and a lower zone, the radiation transmission characteristics of the upper zone varying in accordance with a constant minus the values of a first function, the radiation transmission characteristics of the lower zone varying in accordance with said constant plus the values of said function, asecond elongated plate of radiationtransmitting material having an upper zoneand a lower zone, the radiation transmission characteristics of said upper zone varying in accordancewith a constant minus the values of -a second function, the radiation transmission characteristics of the lower zone varying in accordance with said second constant plus the values of said second function, a radiation detector, means for passing parallel beams of radiation through selected portions of the upper zones of both plates to said detector, means for passing parallel beams of radiation through selected portions of both lower zones to said detector, and means for moving one of said plates in a longitudinal path with respect to the other of said plates. 
 7. Apparatus for algebraically multiplyingtwo variables which comprises, in combination, a plate of radiation-transmitting material divided into two longitudinally extending, adjacent zones, a band of radiation absorbing material on said plate which is displaced laterally thereon in accordance with the values of a function, said band having a portion thereof positioned within each of said zones throughout-its length, a second plate of radiation-transmitting material divided into two longi tudinally extending, adjacent zones, a layer of-radiation absorbing material on said second plate, the opacity of said-layer in one zone varying, with respecttq at eference opacity, in accordance with the positive values of a second function, the opacity of said layer in .the other zone varying, with respect to said reference opacity,in 
' accordance with the negative values of said second function, a radiation detector, and means for passing ;radiation through both plates to saiddetector. 1f, a 
 8. Apparatus for algebraically multiplying tw variables which comprises, in combination, a plate o f; radiation-transmitting material divided into two longitudinally extending, adjacent zones, a band of radiation absorbing material on said plate which is displaced laterally thereon in accordance with the values of a function; said band having a portion thereof positioned within each of said zones throughout its length, a second plate of radiation-transmitting material divided into two longitudinally extending, adjacent zones, a layer of radiation absorbing material on said second plate, .the opacity, of said layer in one zone varying, with the positive respect to a reference opacity, in accordance with valuesof a second function, the opacity of said layer in the. other zone varying, with respect to said reference opacity, in accordance with the negative values of said second function, a radiation detector, means for passing a .slit of radiation through both plates to said detector, and means for moving said plates in unison so that the slit isltraversed by said plates in a longitudinal path, whereby the detector output represents the product of said functions plotted against time. p t 9. Apparatus for algebraically multiplying and integrating two variables which comprises, in combination, a plate of radiation-transmitting material divided into two longitudinally extending, adjacent zones, a band of radiation absorbing material on said plate which is displaced laterally thereon in accordance with the values of a function, said band having a portion thereof positioned withineach of said zones throughout its length, a second plate of radiation-transmitting material divided into .two longitudinally extending, adjacent zones, a layer of radiation absorbing material on said second plate, the opacity of said layer in one zone varying, with. the 
 positive respect to a reference opacity, in accordance ,with j values of a secondfunction, the opacity 5 of said layefin the other zone varying, with respect to said ref- 16 erence opacity, in accordance; with ,the negative values of said second function, a radiation detector, means for directing radiation through a longitudinal band of both plates to said detectorfwhereby the detector output represents the integral of the products of said functions over a predetermined interval of time. i 
10. Apparatus for algebraically multiplying and-integrating two variables which, comprises, in combination, 
a plate of radiation-transmitting material divided iiito two longitudinally extending,adjacent zones, a band of radiation absorbing material on said plate which is displaced laterallyathereon in accordance with the values of a function, said band having a portion thereof positioned within each of said zonesuthroughout its length, a second plate of radiation-transmitting material divided into two longitudinally, extending, adjacent zones, a layerof radiation absorbing material on said second plate, the opacity of said layer in one zone varying, with respect to a reference opacity in accordance with the positive values of a second function, the opacity of said layer in the other zone varying, with respect to said reference opacity, in accordance with the negative values of said second function, aradiation detector, a radiation source, means for directing radiation from said source through a longitudinalband of both plates and thereafter.upon said radiation detector, whereby the1detector outputrepresents the integral of the products of said functions,over a predetermined interval of time, 'and means forfeffecting relative longitudinal movement between said plates, H 
 11. Apparatus for algebraically multiplying two variables which comprises, in combination, an elongated plate of transparent material divided into two .longitudinally extending, adjacent zones, a band of opaque material on said-plate which is displaced laterally thereon in accordance withthevaluesofa function, saidband having a portion thereof positionedv withineach of said zones throughout its lengthfa second elongated plate of transparent material divided into two longitudinally extending, adjacent zones positioned adjacent the respective zones of'said first plate, a layer of material on said second plate, the opacity of said layer in one zone varying, with respect to a reference'opacity, in accordance with the positive values of a second function, the opacity of said layer in the other zone varying with respect to said reference opacity in accordance with the negative values ofsaid second function, a photoelectric cell, and a light, source havinganielongated filament positioned transversely of said plates. and spaced therefrom so as to pass parallelbeams of light through both plates to the photoelectric cell. 7 U ,f I, 
 12. Apparatus for algebraically multiplying two variables which comprises, in combination, an elongated plate of transparent material divided into two longitudinally extending, adjacent zones, 2. band, of opaque material on said plate which is displaced laterally thereon in accordance with the valuesyof a function, said band having a portion thereof positioned within each of said zones throughout its length, a second elongated plate of transparent material divided into two longitudinally extending, adjacent zones positioned adjacent the respective zones of said first plate, alayer of material on said second plate, the opacity of said layer in one zone varying, with respect to a reference opacity, in accordance with the positive values of a second function, the, opacity of, said layer in the other zones varying, with respect to said reference opacity, in accordance with the negative values of said second function, a photoelectric cell, means for passing a slit of light through both plates to said cell, and means for moving said plates in unisonso that the slit, traverses said plates in a longitudinal path, whereby.the 
photoelectric [cell output represents the product of said functions .plotted against time. 
13. Apparatus forwalgebraically multiplying andiute grating two variables which comprises, in combination, 
an elongated .plate of transparent material divided into two longitudinally extending, adjacent zones, :a band of opaque material on said plate which is displaced laterally thereon in accordance with the values of a function, said band having a portion thereof positioned within each of said zones throughout its length, a second elongated plate oftransparent'rnaterial divided into two longitudinally extending, adjacent zones positioned adjacent the respective zones of said first plate, a layer'of material on said second plate, '-the opacityof said layer in'one zone varying, with respect to a reference opacity, in accordance with the positive values of a second function, the opacity of said layer in the'other zone varying, with .respect to said reference opacity, in. accordance with the negative values of said second function, a photoelectric cell, a light source having a filament positioned transversely of said plates and "spaced therefrom, means for dir'ectingthe radiation from said filament though a band of preselected length on said plates to said photoelectric cell, whereby the cell output represents the integral of the products of said functions over a predetermined interval of time. 7 
 14. Apparatus for algebraically'multiplying and integrating two variables which comprises, in combination, an elongated plate of transparent material dividedinto twolongitudinally extending,- adjacent zones, a band of opaque material on said plate which is displaced laterally thereon 'in accordance'with the values of afunction, said band-having a portion thereof positioned within each of'said zones throughout its length, a second elongated plate of transparent material dividedinto two-longitudinally extending adjacent zones which are superimposed upon the 'respective zones 'ofs'a-id first'plate, alayer of material on s'aidfsecondfplate, the opacity of said layer in one zone varying, with respect to a reference opacity, in accordance withtlie positive values or a second function, the opacity of 'saidlayerdn the other zonevarying the respect tosaid reference apathy in accordance with the negative values of said second function, a photoelectric cell, a 'lig hts'ourcehaving an elongated filament, means for directinglight' fro'rn said filament through a longitudinal band of "both'pla'tes to said photoelectric cell, whereby the cell output represents the integral of the product of said functions over a predetermine'd'interval of time, and means for moving said first plate in a longitudinal 'path'throu'gh said band of light, whereby the 7 cell output represents the integral, over a preselected said band being one-half the width of said plate, a second plate of radiation-transmitting material divided into two longitudinally extending, adjacent zones, a layer of opaque material on said second plate, the opacity of said layer in one zone varying, with respect to a reference opacity, in accordance with the positive values of a function, the opacity of said layer in the other zone varying, with respect to said reference opacity, in accordance with the negative values of said function, a photoelectric cell, means for passing light in parallel beams through preselected regions of both plates to'said photoelectric cell, and means for moving said first plate longitudinally with respect to said second plate, whereby the photoelectric cell output is representative of a transformed seismic signal. 7 
 16. Apparatus in accordance with claim 15 in which said function represents the characteristics of an ideal electrical filter. 
 17. Apparatus in accordance with claim 15 in which said function represents the wave form of an ideal elementary event whereby, upon relative movement between the plates, the cross correlation function between the seismic record and the elementary event is obtained. 
 18. Apparatus in accordance with claim 15 in which the density of said second plate varies proceeding from one side of the other of said plates. 
 '19. Apparatus in accordance with claim 15 in which the first plate includes .a plurality of dual, zone recordings; a timing wave, and an alignment line, the .second plate carrying a plurality of dual zone recordings adapted to *be superimposed over the respective recordings onthe first .plate, and an alignment line on said second plate for permitting precise alignment of said plates. 
 20. Apparatus for multiplying two variables comprising, in combination, a pair of adjacently positioned elongated .plates of radiation transmitting material, each of said plates having an upper and a lower zone extending longitudinally of said plates, the radiation transmission characteristics of the upper zone of said first plate being varied with respect to a standard transmission, in accordance with the positive values of a first function, the radiation transmission characteristics of the lowerzone of said first plate being varied with respect to said standard transmission, in accordance with the'negative values of'said' functiomthe radiation transmission characteristics of the upper zone'of said'secondplate being varied 'with respect to a standard transmission, in accordance with the positive values of a second function, the radiation transmission characteristics of the lower zone of said secend plate being varied with respect to said standard trans- "gated plates of radiation transmitting material, each of saidplates having an upper and a lower zone extending longitudinally of said plates, the radiation transmission characteristics of the upper zone of said first plate being varied in accordance with a constant minus the values of a first'function, the radiation transmission characteristics of the lower zone of said first plate beingvaried in accordance with said constant plus the values of said first function, the radiation transmission characteristics .ofthellppcr zone 'of said secondplate being variedin accordance with a second constant minus the values of a second function, the radiation transmission characteristics of the lower zone of said second plate being varied in accordance with said second constant plus the values of said second function, and means. to retain said plates adjacent one another whereby two parallel beams of radiation can be transmitted through two said plates so that one of said beams is directed through the upper zones of said first and second plates and the other of said beams is directed through the lower zones of said first and second plates. 
 22. Apparatus for multiplying two variables comprising, in combination, a' pair of adjacently positioned elongated plates of radiation transmitting material, said first plate being divided into two longitudinally extending adjacent zones and having a band of radiation absorbing material disposed thereon, said band being displaced laterally in accordance with the values of a first function, said band having a portion thereof positioned within each of said zones throughout its length, said second plate being divided into two longitudinally extending adjacent zones and having a layer of radiation absorbing material disposed thereon, the opacity of said layerin-one zone being varied with respect to a reference opacity, in accordance with the positive valuesof a second function, the opacity of said layer in the other zone being varied with respect to said reference opacity, in accordance with the negative values of said second function, and meansto retain said plates adjacent one another whereby two parallel beams of radiation can be transmitted through two said plates so that one of said beams is directed through the upper zones of said first and second plates and the other of sad beams is directed through the lower zones of said fist and second plates. 
 23. Apparatus for interpreting seismicsignalscomprising a transducer to detect vibrations incident thereon, means responsive tosaid transducer to establish a first signal representative of vibrations incident upon said transducen means to establish a quantity. representative of a preselected vibration pattern, means to multiply a portion of said first signal by said quantity, and means to vary continuously and progressively the portion of said first signal which is multiplied by said quantity. 
24. Apparatus for. interpreting seismic signals comprising a transducer to detect vibrations incident thereon, 
means responsive to said transducer to establisha first signal representative of vibrationsincident upon said transducer, means to establish a quantity representative of a preselected vibration pattern, means to multiply a portion of said first signal by said quantityymeans to integrate the product of saidrnultiplication, means to vary progressively the portion of said first signal which is multiplied by'said quantity, and means to record the output of said means to integrate, whereby the recorded quantity is a maximum when the two factors being multiplied are most nearly alike. 1 t 1 t t 25. The combination in accordance with claim 24 wherein said quantity is representative of the output signal of a seismorneter when a reflected seismic vibration is incident onthe seismometer in the absence of random. 
noise vibrations. V 
26. Apparatus for interpreting seismic signals'comprising a transducer to detect vibrations incident thereon, 
means responsive to said transducer to establish a first signal representative of vibrations incident upon said transducer comprising means to expose a first photo- 1 graphic plate, means to establish a quantity representative of a preselected vibration pattern comprising means to expose a second photographic plate, means to multiply a portion of said first signal by said quantity comprising means to transmit radiation through the two plates and means to measure the transmitted radiation, and means to vary the portion of said first signal which isrnultiplied by said quantity comprising means relative to the other plate. s 1* t t 27. Apparatus for interpreting seismic signals compris- 28. Apparatus for interpreting seismic signals comprising azseismograph signal track,.means responsiveto said track to establish a signal which is a function of a portion of the seismic signal on said track, meansto establish a quantity representative of apreselected functiommeans to multiply said signal by said preselected function, means to integrate the product of the multiplication, means to vary progressively the portion of said track which is multiplied by said preselected function and means to record the, 
output of said means to integrate. 
 29. The method of seismic surveying which creating seismic waves at a given location adjacent the earths surface, receiving at aposition spaced from said location the resultant seismic wavesafter travel through} thesub-surface, forming the product of at least one of the received waves and a pattern wave having theform of a desired seismic wave. substantially" free of noise, forming the integral of said iproduct over a period of time, and indicating the varyinglvalues 'of said integral for different phase relations between. said received and said pattern waves. 
References Citeduinrthefile of this patent UNITED STATES PATENTS 1,828,328 Legg L. Oct: 20, 1931 1,923,746 Pomeroy Aug. 22, 1 933 2,098,326 Wente Nov. 9, 1937 2,118,894 Morrissey May 31, 1938 2,157,878 Worstell May 9, 1939 2,179,000, Tea Nov. 7, 1939 2,287,965 Borberg June 30, 1942 2,540,105 Dunbaret a1. July 30, 1945 2,397,027 Maurer Mar. 19, 1946 2,406,702 1946 2,495,790 1950 2,497,042 r 1950 2,643,819, 1953 2,638,402 1953 2,688,124 Doty, et al.' Aug. 31, 1954 FOREIGN PATENTS 5,628" Great Britain Mar. 5, 1902 to move one of the plates 1 comprises 17 an elongated plate of transparent material divided into two longitudinally extending, adjacent zones, --a band of opaque material on said phite which is displaced laterally thereon in accordance with the values of a function, said band having a portion thereof positioned within each of said zones throughout its length, a second elongated plate of transparent material divided into two longitudinally extending, adjacent zones positioned adjacent the respective zones of said first plate, a layer-"of material on said second plate, the opacity of said layer inone zone varying, with respect to a reference opacity, in accordance with the positive values of a second function, the opacity of said layer in the other zone varying, with .respect to said reference opacity, in accordance with the negative values of said second function, a photoelectric cell, a light source having a filament positioned transversely of said plates 'and spaced therefrom-means for directing the radiation from said filament though a band of preselected length on said plates to said photoelectric cell, whereby the cell output represents the integral of. 
the products of said functions over a predetermined interval of time. 
 14. Apparatus for algebraically multiplying and integrating two variables which comprises, in combination, an elongated plate of transparent material divided .into two longitudinally extending, adjacent zones, a band of opaque material on said plate which is displaced laterally thereon in'accordance with the values of afunction, said band having a portion thereof positioned within each of said zones throughout its length, asecond elongated plate of transparent material dividedinto twolongitudinally extending adjacent zones which are superimposed upon the respectivezones of said first plate, a-layer of material on said second plate, the opacity of said layer in one zone varying, with respect to a reference opacity, in accordance withtlie positive values of a second function, the opacity of said layerin the other zone varying the respect to said reference opacity in accordance with the negative values of said second function, a photoelectric cell, a light'sourc'e having an elongated'filament, means for directing'light' from said filament through a longitudinal band of both plates to said photoelectric cell, whereby the cell output represents the integral of the product of said functions over a predetermined interval of time, and means for moving said first plate in a longitudinal path'throu'gh said band of light, whereby the cell output representsth'e integral, over a preselected range of the product of the second function andthefirst function shifted along its axis. i 
 15. Apparatus for transforming and recording seismic signals which comprises, in combination, a plate of transparent material dividedinto'twolongitudinally extending, adjacent zones, a band of opaque material on said plate which is displaced laterally thereon with respect to the center of said plate in accordance with the amplitude of seismic signals to be recorded, the width of said band being one-half the width of said plate, a second plate of radiation-transmitting material divided into two longitudinally extending, adjacent zones, a layer of opaque material on said second plate, the opacity of said layer in one zone varying, with respect to a reference opacity, in accordance with the positive values of a function, the opacity of said layer in the other zone varying, with respect to said referenceopacity, in accordance with the negative values of said function, a photoelectric cell, means for passing light in parallel beams through preselected regions of both plates to said photoelectric cell, and means for moving said first plate longitudinally with respect to said second plate, whereby the photoelectric cell output is representative of a transformed seismic signal. I 
 16. Apparatus in accordance with claim 15 in which said function represents the characteristics of an ideal electrical filter. 
, 18 17. Apparatus in accordance with'claim '15 in which said function represents the wave form ofan ideal. elementary event whereby, upon relative movement between the plates, the cross correlation function between the seismic record and the elementary event is obtained. 
18. Apparatus in accordance with claim 15 in which the'density of said second plate varies proceeding from one side of the other of said plates. 
 19'. Apparatus in accordance with claim 15in which the first plate includes a pluralityof dual zone: recordings; a timing wave, and an alignment. line, the second plate carrying a plurality of dual zone recordings adapted to be superimposed over the respective recordings onzthe first plate, and an alignment line on said second plate for permitting precisealignment of said plates. 
 20. Apparatus for multiplying two variables comprising, in combination, a pair of adjacently positioned-elongated plates. of radiation'transmitting material, each of said plates having an upper and a lower zone extending longitudinally of said plates, the radiation transmission characteristics of the upper zone of said first platebeing varied with respect to a standard transmission, in accordance with the positive values of a first function, the radiation transmission characteristics of thelowerxzone of said first plate being varied "with respect to said standardtransmission, in accordance with the'negat-ive'values of said function, the radiation transmission characteristics of the upper zone of saidsecond plate, being varied with respect .to a standard transmission, in accordance with the positive values of a second function, the'radiation transmissioncharacteristics of the-lower zone of said sec-' end plate being varied with respect, to said standard transmission, in accordance withthe negative values-of said second function, and means to retain said plates adjacent one anotheivwhereby two parallel beams of radiation can be t-ransmittedthrough two said plates'so that one ofsaid beams is directed through the upper zones of said first and second plates and the otherflo fsaidbeams is directed through the lower zones of saidfirst and second plates. 
 21. Apparatus for multiplying two variables comprising, in combination, 'a pair of adjacently positioned :elongated plates of radiation transmitting material, eachof saidplates having an upper and a lower zone extending longitudinally of said platesythe radiation transmission characteristics of the upper zone of said first plate being varied in accordance with a constant minus the values of a first'function, the radiation transmission characteristics of the lowerzone'of said first plate being varied in accordance with said constant plus the values ofsaid first function, the radiation transmission characteristics of 'the upp er' {zone of said second plate being variecLin of said first and second plates and the other .of said beams is directed through the lower zones of said first and second plates. 
 22. Apparatus'for multiplying two variables comprising, in combination, a pair of adjacently positioned elongated plates of radiation transmitting materiaL'said first plate being divided into two longitudinally extending adjacent zones .and having a band of radiation absorbing material disposed thereon, said band being displaced laterally in accordance with the values of a first function, 
said band having a portion thereof positioned within each of said zones throughout its length, said second plate being divided into two longitudinally extending adjacent zones and having a layer of radiation absorbing material UNITED STATES PATENT OFFICE CERTIFICATE OF CORRECTION Patent No, 2,839,149 June 17, 1958 Raymond G, Piety I It is hereby certified that error appears in the-printed specification of the above numbered patent requiring correction and that the said Letters Patent should read as corrected below. 
 Column 2, line 44, for "transfomed" read -=-transformed==-; column 5, lines 5 and 6, strike out "rotational seismometer responsive only to; column 7, line 70, for "trenemtited there through" read -transmitted there through column 9, line 29, for "factor" read =-=-factors column ll, line 63, for one read ====on=-=g column 12, line 15, for "of", second occurrence, read -==-out column 15, line 49, strike out "the positive" and insert the same before "values" in line 50; lines '72 and '73, strike out "the positive and insert the same before '-*values" in line '74; column 17, line 3?, for "the respect" read with respectg column 18, line 8, for "of", first occurrence, read tocolumn 19, line 11, for sad" read eaid line 12, for "fiat" read 'f Signed and sealed this 1.4thday of October 1958, 
 F Atifi H, AXLINE ROBERT C. WATSON Attesting Qfficer Commissioner of Patents