Pneumatic or hydraulic delay device 
US-3437100-A
Snecma
1969-04-08
https://patents.google.com/patent/US3437100A/en
A ril 8, 1969" I 7 J. RONA v 3,437,100 I PNEUMATIC OR HYDRAULIC DEL AY DEVICE I Filed Feb. 23. 1968 she at of 4 J- RONA PNEUMATIC OR HYDRAULIC DELAY DEVICE April 8, 1969 7 Sheet 2 M4 File' 'd Feb. 23. 1968 05 Q QC: 866 
 232 u 2 y Q28 A ril 8, 1969 J. RONA P NEUMA TIC OR HYDRAULIC DELAY DEVICE- Filed Feb. 23. 1968 April 8, 1969 J. Rom 3,437,100 
PNEUMATIC OR HYDRAULIC DELAY DEVICE Filed Feb. 23, 1968 Sheet 4 of 4 United States Patent Int. Cl. F15c 3700; F16t 1/12 US. Cl. 137-815 13 Claims ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE A delay device for transmitting with a determinate time-delay binary signal in the form of highand lowpressure pulses, comprising two capillary tubes which simultaneously receive the input signals, a transmitter means which emits highand low-pressure output signals according to whether the pressure at the output of the first capillary tube is greater or less than a predetermined intermediate pressure, and a locking means which prolongs the emission of each high-pressure output signal by feeding to the output of said first capillary tube a pressure greater than said intermediate pressure, as long as the pressure at the output of the second capillary tube is greater than a predetermined pressure less than said intermediate pressure. 
Cross-reference to related application This is a continuation in application Ser. No. 338,709 ent No. 3,380,465. 
Background of the invention This invention relates to a delay device susceptible of transmitting a pneumatic or hydraulic signal with a predetermined time-delay, more specifically for storing the output signal of an operation and using it as the input signal for a subsequent operation. 
 It will be appreciated that in the case of a binary adder, it is necessary to store the carry-over resulting from the addition of the digits of equal weight, in order to add it subsequently to the sum of the digits of greater weight, which calls for the use of a delay device. 
 An object of the present invention is to provide a pneumatic or hydraulic delay device capable of transmitting a pneumatic or hydraulic signal with a predetermined timedelay, for example as is necessary in a pneumatic or hydraulic binary adder. 
part of my copending patent filed Jan. 20, 1964, now Pat- Summary of the invention According to the invention, a delay device comprises a delay element, a transmitter element and a locking element. The delay element comprises a pair of capillary tubes leading from an input pipe to first and second chambers, respectively, means being provided to feed one and zero signals to the input pipe in the form of highand low-pressure pulses respectively. The transmitter element is responsive to the pressure differential between the pressure in the first chamber and a first predetermined pressure intermediate the high pressure and low pressure of the input signals, to emit respective highand lowpressure signals in an output pipe according to the sense of the pressure diiferential. The locking element is responsive to the pressure differential between the pressure in the second chamber and a second predetermined pressure which is intermediate the first predetermined pressure and ice the low pressure of the input signals to open a passage between a locking pipe and a further pipe subjected to a locking pressure higher than the first predetermined pressure, in response to said pressure in the second chamber being greater than said second predetermined pressure. Closable means are provided in the transmitter element to feed the pressure of the locking pipe to the first chamber in response to the pressure in the first chamber being greater than the first predetermined pressure. 
 In an embodiment, the further pipe is pressurized con tinuously. In another embodiment, the further pipe is connected to the output pipe, so that the pressure in the further pipe is the high pressure of the output signals whenever the pressure in the first chamber is greater than the first predetermined pressure. 
 In an embodiment of the invention, the locking element compises means for venting the locking pipe in response to the pressure in the second chamber being less than the second predetermined pressure. 
Brief description of the drawing A practical embodiment of delay device according to the invention will now be described by way of example, for convenience with reference to its application in a pneumatic or hydraulic adding circuit, which in itself forms the subject of my co-pending patent application Ser. No. 338,709, of which the present application is a continuation in part. 
In the accompanying drawings, 
 FIGURES 1, 1a, 1b and 10 show an embodiment of aerodynamically operating valve, 
FIGURE 2 shows an adding circuit utilising such valves, 
 FIGURE 3 shows the logic diagram of the circuit of FIGURE 2, 
 FIGURE 4 shows diagrammatically an embodiment of delay device according to the invention, as used in the adding circuit of FIGURE 2, 
 FIGURE 5 is a view similar to FIGURE 4, showing a modification, 
 FIGURE 6 is a view similar to FIGURE 4, showing another modification, and 
 FIGURE 7 is a view similar to FIGURE 6, showing a further modification. 
Description of the preferred embodiment The adding circuit shown in FIGURE 2 utilises pneumatically operating valves. For clarity, the manner of operation of one of these valves will first be described with reference to FIGURES 1 to 10. Each valve, in fact, constitutes a logic circuit. 
 In this logic circuit the one signal is represented by pressure pulses of determinate duration and the zero signal by the absence of a pulse of such duration. The inlets 1 and 2 are nozzles opening into a deflection chamher 5, respectively opposite orifices 1a and 2a extended by ducts 1b and 212, respectively, which converge towards the outlet 3. The nozzles 1 and 2 are directed convergently, in such manner that the jets 6, 7 which they emit deflect each other mutually when the two nozzles are supplied simultaneously, whereby a resultant jet 8 is formed which penetrates into a duct 4a leading to the outlet 4. 
 An examination of the accompanying drawing shows that if the signals a and b be applied to inlets 1 and 2 respectively, the signal ab will be picked up at the outlet 3 and the signal a.b at 4. In FIGURE 1, a and b are zero, and there will be no jet if zero is picked up at the two outlets. In FIGURES la or 1b, the single jet 7 (or 6) emerges directly through the orifice 2a (or In) and reaches 3, where the one signal is picked up, the zero signal being picked up at 4. In FIGURE 1c, the two one signals give two jets 6 and 7 which form the jet 8 which issues at 4 and provides the one signal, the zero" signal being picked up at 3. Thus, the valve performs the exclusive-r operation at 3 and the and operation at 4. 
 It is stated precedingly that if a and b are the digits of identical weight of two binary numbers, then ab will be their sum and (1.12 the carry-over. The valve in FIGURE 1 thus constitutes a basic logic circuit known as a half-adder. 
 FIGURE 2 shows an embodiment of a pneumatic adder utilizing three valves identical to that of FIGURE 1. FIGURE 3 is the circuit diagram of this adder. The latter permits of adding two binary numbers having any number of digits n, by using the series notation, i.e. by simultaneously applying to the two inlets 1, 2 the two digits a and b of weight p, the pulses representing the digits of successive weight being dispatched at a determinate rate controlled by a device well known per se, termed a clock. 
 It is well known that the carry-over resulting from the addition of the digits of weight 1 must be added to the sum of the digits of weight p. Provision must therefore be made for two half-adders in cascade form. The first half-adder 9 adds u and b together. Their sum is applied to the input 11 of the second half-adder where it meets the carry-over r issuing from the previous operation. The carry-over r however, is injected into a delay element Rd where it is time-delayed by a period 0 whereby to be applied to the input 12 of the second half-adder 10 in the course of the next operation. At the output end 13 of half-adder 10 is picked up the digit of position p of the sum S while the possible carry-over of the second half-adder is returned to the same delay element Rd. Provision must consequently be made at the input end of said delay element for an element 14 capable of properly passing on the carry-over issuing from 9 or from 10. These two carry-overs are never one simultaneously and, since zero is represented by the absence of a pulse in the pneumatic circuit, the element 14 may be an exclusive-or element. 
 It goes without saying that the element 14 could alternatively be an including element. Said element 14 would compulsorily be an including element in all cases, for example certain hydraulic valves, where the digit zero is represented by a pulse, as this element must be capable of simultaneously passing on two carry-overs equal to zero. 
 The device Rd transmits the signals, time-delayed by 0, through a capillary tube. A preferred embodiment of this device, in accordance with the present invention, will be described hereinafter with reference to FIGURE 4. 
 FIGURE 2 shows the disposition of the circuit for adding two digits h and b equal respectively to one and zero, the carry-over r from the previous operation being one. This carry-over r dispatched by the element Rd enters via 12 into the element 10 wherein it is added to the digit one" reaching 11, whereby to produce a carry-over r equal to one that is returned to the element Rd, a value S equal to zero being picked up at the output 13. 
 The diagram of FIGURE 3 shows the condition of the lines at cycles 0, 20, 30, 40 and 50 when performing the addition of two binary numbers 01011 and 00101. 
 The delay device shown in FIGURE 4 is placed at the output end 14a of element 14 and basically comprises a relay 15, a delay element 16, a transmitting'element 18 which dispatches with a time-delay 0 the signals from tube 14a to a tube 12a extending to the input 12 of element 10 (see FIGURE 2), and a locking element 19. 
 The relay comprises a slide-valve 15a which receives on one side a fixed functional pressure m less than the maximum pressure h of the rough one signal in tube 14a and, on the other side, the pressure prevailing in a chamber 15b, which is the total pressure picked up by a nozzle 14b within tube 14a, the outlet 14c of which tube is vented to the open air. If the rough signal transmitted to tube 14a is one, this this total pressure will be greater than m and the slide-valve will assume the position shown, wherein the input pipe 17 to the delay element communicates with a tank 20 in which the pressure h is continuously maintained, whereby the element 16 receives the one signal. If the rough signal transmitted to tube 14a is zero, i.e. atmospheric pressure, the slide-valve 15a descends and places the input pipe 17 in communication with a vented tube 21, whereby the element 16 receives the zero signal. 
 The delay element 16 comprises two capillary tubes 22, 23 parallel-connected to the input pipe 17. The outlet end of the tfirst capillary tube 22 extends to a first chamber 22a and the outlet end of the second capillary tube 23 extends to a second chamber 23a. 
 The transmitter element 18 comprises a slide-valve 18a which receives on one side the pressure prevailing in chamber 22a and on the other side the functional pressure m, so that slide-valve 18a is moved by'the pressure differential to the position shown in dotted lines whenever the pressure in chamber 22a is greater than m, and again to the position shown in solid lines whenever the pressure in chamber 22a is less than m. In the position shown in solid lines, the slide-valve 18a masks a port 24a of an inlet pipe 24 which is continuously subjected to the pressure h, and a port 25a of a locking pipe 25. In the position shown in dotted line, the slide-valve 18 a uncovers both ports 24a and 25a, thereby opening a passage leading from inlet pipe 24 to a pipe 26 which is connected with the output pipe 12a. 
 The locking element 19 comprises a slide-valve 19a which receives on one side the pressure prevailing in chamber 23a and on the other side a pressure 12 less than m, so that slide-valve 19a is moved by the pressure differential to the position shown in dotted line as soon as the pressure in chamber 23a increases beyond b and again to the position shown in solid lines as soon as the pressure in chamber 23a becomes less than b In the position shown in solid lines, the slide-valve 19a covers a port 27a of a pipe 27 which is connected with pipe 26 and output pipe 12a, while in the position shown in dotted lines, the slide-valve 19a uncovers port 27a to open a passage leading from pipe 27 to locking pipe 25. 
 When a one signal is applied to the input pipe 17 and thereby to the inlet end of capillary tube 22, the pressure at the outlet end thereof and thereby in chamber 22a increases progressively and exceeds m, whereupon the slide-*valve 18a moves to the right and assumes the position shown in dotted lines, and the output pipe 12a receives a high-pressure pulse from inlet pipe 24. The one output signal so emitted in the output pipe will be present after a time-lapse 0. 
 The pressure in chamber 23a increases at the same time as the pressure in chamber 22a, due to the fact that the fluid originating from input pipe 17 flows in parallel through the two capillary tubes, so that the pressure in chamber 23a exceeds b before the pressure in chamber 22a has reached m. Thus when the slide-valve 18a reaches the position shown in dotted lines, the slide-valve 1911 will already have assumed its position shown in dotted lines, so opening the passage between the locking pipe 25 and the tubes 27, 12a and 26. Thus, the chamber 22a receives the pressure h from inlet pipe 24 through port 24a, pipes 26 and 27, port 27a, locking tube 25 and port 25a, as a result of which slide-valve 18a remains locked in the position shown in dotted lines, wherein the one output signal is emitted. 
 When the one input signal is over and the input pipe 17 is vented by the relay 15, the pressure in chamber 23a will gradually decrease as the fluid drains through capillary tube 23, but the slide-valve 18a will remain locked in the position shown in dotted lines until the pressure in chamber 23:: has dropped below b At this point, the slide-valve 19a will move leftwardly and mask once more the port 27a. The pressure in chamber 22a will then decrease gradually and drop below m, whereupon the slidevalve 18a will move leftwardly and mask once more the port 24a. This can take place when a time-delay 0 has elapsed subsequent to the venting of input pipe 17. Thus, if a Zero input signal succeeds upon the one signal in input pipe 17, a like zero signal will be present in output pipe 12a when a time-delay 0 has elapsed subsequent to the application of the zero input signal. 
 It will be noticed that, in the embodiment of FIGURE 4, the ports 24a and 25a must be so arranged that-port 24a is uncovered before port 25a during the movement of slide-valve 18a to the right, as shown in the drawing, in order to avoid that chamber 22a be vented through output pipe 12a. 
 This can be avoided, alternatively, by the modification shown in FIGURE 5. In this figure, the pipe 27 and the port 27a are omitted, and the locking pressure is provided to locking pipe 25 by a pipe 28 continuously subjected to the pressure It and having a port 28a which is covered and uncovered by slide-valve 19a when in its position shown in solid lines and in dotted lines, respectively. It will be apparent that the locking pressure need not be h, and pipe 28 can be subjected to any pressure greater than the pressure In which slide-valve 18a receives on its right side. 
 FIGURE 6 shows a modification wherein a pipe 29 vented to the open air has a port 29a which is masked by slide-valve 19a in its position shown in dotted lines and uncovered by the same in its position shown in solid lines. This modification allows the chamber 22a to be vented through port 25a, locking pipe 25, port 29a and pipe 29 as soon as slide-valve 19a will return to the left when the pressure in chamber 23a decreases below b At this point, the emission of the one signal in output pipe 12a will be cut-off as the slide-valve 18a is returned quickly to the left, and the pressure in chamber 22a will drop immediately to the atmospheric pressure. 
 It Will be seen that the device hereinbefore described transmits, with the time-delay 0, the one and zero signals in the form of pressure pulses at levels It and the atmospheric pressure, respectively, the zero output signal being obtained by the absence of any pressure in the output pipe. In some computer systems, the zero signal is in the form of a pulse of a low pressure b different from the atmospheric pressure. Such a system is described, for instance, in my co-pending patent application Ser. No. 338,709 of which the present application is a continuation in part. 
 FIGURE 7 shows how the device of the invention can be modified to convey one and Zero signals in the form of pressure pulses at levels It and b, respectively which are present in the tube 14a. The relay 15 derives therefrom the input signals in the form of pressure pulses at the levels h and the atmospheric pressure, respectively, which are fed to the input pipe 17. A pipe 30 continuously subjected to the pressure b has a port 30a which is masked by slide-valve 18a in its position shown in dotted lines and uncovered by the same in its position shown in solid lines. In the latter position, the zero output signal is fed to output pipe 12a in the form of a pressure pulse at the level b. 
 Correct operation of the device as described hereinabove, for the purpose of transmitting the signals with the time-delay 0, can easily be obtained by correctly selecting capillary tubes 22 and 23, the pressure levels h, m and b the locations of the various ports in relation with the travels of the co-operating slide-valves, and the volumes of the chambers and pipes. 
I claim: 
 1. A delay device comprising an input pipe and an output pipe; means for feeding one and zero input binary signals to the input pipe in the form of pulses of a high pressure and a low pressure, respectively; a 
pair of capillary tubes leading from the input pipe to first 6 and second chambers, respectively; transmitter means responsive to the pressure in the first chamber to emit respective output binary signals in the said form in the output pipe, in response to the pressure in the first chamber being greater or less, respectively, than a first predetermined pressure which is intermediate the high and low pressures; and means comprising closable means under the cont-r01 of the transmitter means and locking means responsive to the pressure in the second chamber, to feed the first chamber through a locking pipe with a locking pressure greater than the first predetermined pressure, in response to the pressure in the second chamber being greater than a second predetermined pressure which is intermediate the low pressure and the first predetermined pressure and to said pressure in the first chamber being greater than said first predetermined pressure, said closable means under the control of the transmitter means including closable means closing communication between the locking pipe and the first chamber in response to said pressure in the first chamber being less than said first predetermined pressure. 
 2. A delay device as claimed in claim 1, in which the low pressure is atmospheric pressure. 
 3. A delay device as claimed in claim 1, in which the locking means comprise means for venting the locking pipe, responsive to the pressure in the second chamber being less than the second predetermined pressure. 
 4. A delay device as claimed in claim 1, comprising a relay for deriving the respective input binary signals from respective one and zero rough binary signals in the form of rough pressure pulses. 
 5. A delay device as claimed in claim 4, in which the respective input binary signals are in the form of pulses of the high pressure and atmospheric pressure, respectively. 
 6. A delay device as claimed in claim 5, in which the relay comprises a third chamber, pick-up means for feeding the third chamber with the pressure pulses of the rough binary signals, and a distributor means responsive to the pressure in the third chamber to connect the input pipe with a source of the high pressure and with the atmosphere, in response to the pressure in the third chamber being greater or less than a predetermined pressure, respectively. 
 7. A delay device as claimed in claim 6, in which the pick-up means comprise a pipe having an outlet end vented to the open air and an inlet end, means for feeding the rough binary signals to the inlet end, a nozzle arranged in the pipe to pick-up total pressure therein, and means connecting the nozzle to the third chamber. 
 8. A delay device as claimed in claim 1, in which said transmitter means and said closable means under the control thereof comprise an inlet for the high pressure and a passage leading from the inlet to the output pipe, a passage leading from the locking pipe to the first chamber, and a distributor member movable by the pressure diflerential between the pressure in the first chamber and the first predetermined pressure, to a first position to close both passages in response to said pressure in the first chamber being lower than said first predetermined pressure, and to a second position to open both passages in response to said pressure in the first chamber being higher than said first predetermined pressure. 
 9. A delay device as claimed in claim 8, in which the transmitter means comprise an inlet for the low pressure and a further passage leading from the same to the output pipe, the distributor member being adapted to open said further passage in the first position and to close said further passage in the second position. 
 10. A delay device as claimed in claim 1, in which the locking means comprise a passage leading from the locking pipe to the output pipe, and a distributor member movable by the pressure differential between the pressure in the second chamber and the second predetermined pressure, to a first position to close the passage in response to said pressure in the second chamber being lower than said second predetermined pressure, and to a second position to open the passage in response to said pressure in the second chamber being higher than said second predetermined pressure. 
 11. A delay device as claimed in claim 10, in which the locking means comprise a further passage for venting the locking pipe, the distributor member being adapted to open said further passage in the first position and to close said further passage in the second position. 
 '12. A delay device as claimed in claim 1, in which the locking means comprise an inlet for the locking pressure, a passage leading from the inlet to the locking pipe, and a distributor member movable by the pressure differential between the pressure in the second chamber and the second predetermined pressure, to a first position to close the passage in response to said pressure in the second chamber being lower than said second predetermined pressure, and to a second position to open the passage in response to said pressure in the second chamber being higher than said second predetermined pressure. 
 13. A delay device as claimed in claim 12, in which the locking means comprise a further passage for venting the locking pipe, the distributor member being adapted to open said further passage in the first position and to close said further passage in the second position. 
References Cited UNITED STATES PATENTS 3,070,295 12/ 1962 Glattli. 
3,084,675 4/1963 Scheidler. 
3,122,313 2/ 1964 Glattli. 
3,238,959 3/1966 Bowles 1378 1.5 
3,302,398 2/1967 Taplin et a1. 13781.5 XR 
SAMUEL SCOTT, Primary Examiner. 
US. Cl. X.R.