Pitch matching detecting and counting system 
US-3581067-A
Spartanics
1971-05-25
https://patents.google.com/patent/US3581067A/en
United States Patent Inventors Samuel P. Willits; 
William L. Mohan, both of Barrington, Ill. 780,367 
Dec. 2, 1968 May 25, 197i Spartanics Limited Palatine, Ill. 
Appl. No. Filed Patented Assignee PITCH MATCHING DETECTING AND COUNTING SYSTEM 23 Claims, 19 Drawing Figs. 
US. Cl 235/92V, 235/92R, 235/92SB, 235/92PB, 235/98, 250/219TH, 250/222R Int. Cl G06m 9/00 Field of Search ..250/219 ID, 
219 F, 219 TH, 222; 235/92/10, 92/61 92/64, 98 
[56] Rel'erencesCited UNITED STATES PATENTS 3,346,725 10/1967 Allured 235/92 3,350,156 10/1967 Adams 350/202 3,034,643 5/1962 1051161.... 209/74 3,449,586 6/1969 Serra 250/219 Primary Examiner-Maynard R. Wilbur Assistant Examiner Robert F. Gnuse Attorney-Jacque L. Meister ABSTRACT: An apparatus .for counting stacked sheetlike materials having no sheet separation requirements. The active area of the sensor array is matched to the width of a sheet of the stack and the sensor array caused to traverse the stack, the complex signal output of the sensor array being stripped of the unwanted components in a high gain, diode clamped capaci-- tive input operational amplifier whose square wave output is processed and counted in conventional counting circuits. 
COUNTERS PATENTEU M25197: 
SHEET 2 0F 7 v SIGNAL RIPPING TO ST CIRCUIT 42 WILLIAM LHOHAN SAMUEL P. WILLITS INVENTOR. 
 PATENTED HAY25 l97| SHEET 3 BF 7 Fig.8 
 SENSOR PAIR-LINE OVERLAP PERCENTAGE 4O FROM AMP 54 5 l 5 2 wos-zmummu mommw .rZDOQKMOZD SENSOR PAIR-LINE UNDERLAP PERCENTAGE WILLIAM L. MOHAN SAMUEL EWILLITS INVENTOR. 
PATENT ED HAY25|97| 35 1, 067 
SHEET 4 OF 7 y I l I STORAGE i l k 2a COUNTER AMP MN. 
 /52 WILLIAM L. MOHAN SAMUEL P. WILLITS Fig.9 MW 
ATTY. 
PATENTEDHAY25I97L 358L067 sum 5 [1F 7 WILLIAM L. MOHAN SAMUEL R WILLITS INVEN'IOR. 
BY XQRJV PATENTED W25 l9?! SHEET 6 BF 7 TO AMP 292 TO AMP 290 WILLIAM L. MOHAN SAMUEL P. WILLITS mv NTOR. 
. 0/ BY W ATTY PITCH MATCHING DETECTING AND COUNTING SYSTEM BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION This invention relates generally to article counting apparatus and more particularly to sensing and indicating apparatus for counting a plurality of substantially identical objects stacked adjacent one another and either with or without spaces intervening between objects. 
 Many manufacturing and commercial processes result in stacks of-finished or semifinished materials which need to be counted to enable a segregation of a particular quantity for subsequent processing or sale. Additionally, ascertainment of the stacked quantity is often necessary for inventory or cost control purposes. However, often of stacked material has often been very difficult where not impossible where using prior art counting devices because of the very low contrast gradients between adjacent pieces of the stacked materials. 
 Among the industries requiring a numerical segregation of or ascertainment of stacked materials having a low boundary contrast gradient, are those manufacturing or utilizing razor blades, envelopes, stacked papers and metals, fiber and corrugated boards, etc. With such materials the physical contrast properties of the boundaries between adjacent pieces when the material is tightly stacked, is very low, regardless of whether magnetic, electrical, electromagnetic, optical, acoustic, fluidic, or other properties are considered. As a result, counting utilizing an appropriate sensor to detect these properties proves either impossible or impracticable because of the counting errors associated with ambiguities. Thus, until now, despite the obvious existence of the problem for many years, it was necessary to resort to weighing methods to obtain an approximate count of such stacked materials. Further, when a more exact count of the stackedmaterial was required, 
' it was customary to unstack the material at least temporarily, 
as by riffling. This increases boundary contrast, whereupon the unstacked material can be counted by conventional mechanical or electro-optical sensor-indicators. 
 Where objects to be counted are spaced apart, electro-optical devices for counting the objects are well known. Such devices are characterized by their dependence on the high contrast gradient realized with the spaced-apart objects and the correspondingly high signal to noise ratios in the output signals of their sensor. With such prior art devices, as counting speeds increase and object spacing decreases, changes of various types are made in the sensor to maintain the high signal to noise ratio, since a high ratio is normally associated with an accurate count. Such changes have generally taken the form of increased illumination or decreased detector size, or both, plus signal enhancing circuits. However, when object spacing is reduced to zero, the resultant reduced contrast gradient at the boundaries between adjacent objects caused signal to noise ratios so low that the prior art sensors and counters suffered serious inaccuracies despite all efforts to effect signal enhancement. 
 The typical prior art signal enhancing 2X) employed when the sensor signal is a time varying sinusoidal wave train amplitude modulatedby a much lower frequency, as is usually the case, is a high pass filter. However, such filteringmeans, whether they are simple RC or RL single time constant filters or tuned filters, have their limitations. That is, they are generally incapable of passing only the wanted higher frequency indicative of boundaries when that frequency signal component is as little as l 100 of the total amplitude of that of the complex wave and where the higher frequency is variable from two times (2X) the lower frequency to several hundred (RX) times the lower frequency. 
 Among the prior art counting devices and typical with respect to the contrast gradients encountered, is that disclosed by R. F. Massonneau in U.S. Pat. Nb. 2,417,427 issued Mar. I8, 1947. Massonneau's counting circuit employs a plurality of photocells to count discrete, spaced-apart guide marks upon a printed ticket. Another prior art counting device is disclosed by IT. Potter in US. Pat. No. 2,393,186, issued Jan. 14, 1946, wherein a photocell is utilized to count the spacedapart scale marks between a zero mark and the pointer position of an instrument dial. Both of these counting devices are typical of the prior art in that they require the high contrast gradient attainable with spaced-apart objects, to enable their counting circuitry to operate reliably with accuracy. Further, and again typically, neither shows or describes a device for counting stacked objects wherein there is a very low contrast gradient at the juncture between adjacent objects. 
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION A principal object of the invention is to provide a new and improved stacked object detecting system for overcoming the foregoing recited limitations of the prior art and thus enable the accurate counting of stacked objects having a very low contrast gradient across the junctures between adjacent ones of the objects. This object is achieved by particular manners of illumination of the stack and sensor array and by particular size relationships-of the sensor array to the individual objects makingup the stack. 
 Still another object of the invention is to provide a new and improved stacked object detecting and counting system having novel means for stripping the noise components of the sensor output from the higher frequency signal components. thereof over wide variations in the amplitude and frequency This object is realized 'by matching the effective thickness of one of the individual objects making up the stack to the approximate thickness of a sensor array. 
 The foregoing and other objects of the invention are. achieved by a novel sensor arrangement adapted to facilitate scanning of the edges of stacked materials while maintaining. 
particular relationships between the stacked materials and. sensor. The output of the sensor is amplified, the high frequency signal indicative of object count is stripped out of the amplified complex wave train of the sensor andconverted to a pulse train which can be counted. The nature of the invention and its several features and objects will appear more fully from the following description made in connection with the accompanying drawings. 
DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS FIG. 1 is a schematic representation, partially in. perspective and partly in block diagram form showing a simple version of the invention; 
 FIG. 2 is a waveform diagram illustrating output waveforms from the sensor of FIG. I and of the corresponding waveforms appearing at various points in the circuitry of FIG. 1; 
 FIG. 3 is a waveform diagram illustrating the electrical output corresponding to the reflectance of stacked plastic cards; 
 FIG. 4 is a schematic representation of an embodiment employing a more complexlsensor configuration than that of FIG. I and showing preferred angularrelationships; 
 FIG. 5 is a waveform diagram illustrating the output characterisitics of the sensors of FIG. 4; 
 FIG. 6 is a schematic in perspective illustrating the relationships present when more than one pair of sensors is employed; 
 FIG. 7 is a graph illustrating the effects upon counting accuracy of errors in pitch matching for various sensor configurations; 
FIG. 8 is a block diagram illustrating a modification to the scnsorpairs are employed; 
 FIG. 9 is a mechanical-electrical schematic, partially in perspective and partially in block diagram form, illustrating the circuitry utilized to effect count correction when voids are encountered in the stacked material being counted; 
 FIG. 10 illustratesa waveform present in the circuitry of FIG. 9; 
 FIG. 11 illustrates in simplified perspective a means of adjusting the pitch of sensor pair; 
 FIG. 12 is a waveform diagram illustrating the waveform outputs of a sensor pair for various conditions of pitch match; 
 FIG. 13, in perspective and electrical block diagram form, shows means for automatically effecting pitch match of sensors; 
FIG. I4, in perspective schematic form illustrates an alternative means for automatically adjusting sensor pitch; 
 FIG. 15, illustrates the appearance of stacked corrugated material when viewed normal to its edge; 
 FIG. 16 shows the varying appearance of corrugated when viewed obliquely; 
 FIG. 17 is a section taken at 17-17 of the sensing head shown in FIG. 18; 
FIG. 18 is a view in perspective of a sensing headjand FIG. 19, in schematic perspective form, shown an alternative'sensor and associated electrical circuit. 
FIG. I illustrates in schematic form the principal components of the simplest form of the inventive detecting system. 
Objects having sheetlike edge characteristics are shown at 20 stacked adjacent one upon another with their edges proximately in alignment with one another. In such a stack, the edge reflectance of certain materials, has a space varying reflectance signature associated with each sheet. This reflectance is nominally an optical characteristic and then appears as a change in apparent brightness A3, but as will become apparent, with different sensors and irradiation sources, ,may be accoustical, electrical, etc. Among the materials with such a signature and which provides adequate signaloutputs from the inventive system, are stacked sheets of sheared steel. This material has little variation in the average apparent brightness [30f adjacent sheets but there is a small, but nevertheless distinct contrasting area associated with each sheet. There may be a slow change in the average brightness of the stack but, the sheet-to-sheet brightness difference is not large enough .to obliterate the difference characteristic associated with each sheet. 
 A light source 22 is focused by condensing lens 26 on lighted area 28 on the edges of the stacked sheets 20. As can be seen, area 28 is preferably of sufficient size to illuminate three adjacent ones of the stacked sheets. Light source 22 is preferably excited by a DC source 24, to insure that no AC signal component will be impressed on the system photosensor 32. Use of such a DC excited light source has proven advantageous as will become apparent later in this description. 
 An image of lighted area 28 is formed. by objective lens 34 in or substantially in the plane of sensor array 32 and specifically in the plane of masks 36 and 36" positioned between the lens 34 and the sensor array 32. To provide enhanced signal amplitude and an averaging effect to overcome any problems created by waviness in the stacked sheets or burrs at their edges, the slit formed between masks 36' and 36" is made long and narrow with its major axis parallel to the boundary lines between adjacent sheets. To further enhance signal characteristics and prevent ambiguities therein, it has been I found that the slit width is preferably adjusted so that the image 38 on the stacked material of the effective area of the sensor not blocked by the slit is less than the width of an individual sheet and preferably, between 20 percent and 100 percent of that width. Sensor 32 is positioned relative to the masks 36' and 36" so that only light passing through the slit therebetween from lens 34, can fall on the sensitive surface of the sensor array. In this manner the slit between masks 36' and 36" defines the active area of sensor array 32. 
 In the majority of embodiments constructed, the sensor arrays have employed silicon photovoltaic cells. This particular type of cell is desirable since small in size and possessed of low impedance which matches the transistorized signal processing circuitry employed. Obviously, however other types of cells operating with the same or different types of electromagnetic or other radiation, may be employed depending on operating parameters. Further, although both lenses 26 and 34 have been shown for illustrative purposes as conventional spherical types, cylindrical lenses are useful, especially as an objective lens 34. Where cylindrical lenses are utilized, it has been found that improved spatial filtering of the imaged area is obtained. This improved spatial filtering is primarily due to. the averaging effect caused when the sensor array sees" a relatively long segment of each object edge as it traverses them. Spatial filtering can also be enhanced by increasing the length to width ratio of the active area of the sensor array. The preferred ratio between effective sensor array length and object edge thickness varies between 3 to 1 and ID to I. 
 As is apparent from the foregoing, the illumination source 22 and sensor array 32 with their associated optics and masks are advantageously mounted in a suitable frame to maintain these elements in a coplanar relationship and also, to maintain proper focus of the optical elements thereof. One design for such a frame that has proven quite desirable, is that disclosed in the US design Pat. application of Robert C. Sheriff, Ser. No. D-9288, filed Nov. 6', 1967, entitled, Sensing Head for Stacked Corrugated Counter, now Design Pat. No. DES 213,133, issued Jan. 7, I969. Of course, other frames may be suitable. Once mounted in such a frame, movement of these elements relative to the stacked material 20 in the direction of arrow 40 results in the generation of an output signal which, after amplification in preamplifier 4I appears as shown in FIG. 2A. In that and all other subfigures of FIG. 2, time increases from left to right. In FIG. 2 the average brightness as detected by sensor array 32 is [i and variation in brightness as the cell moves one pitch of the material d, is AB. Thus, each cycle of the highest frequency present in wave form A is an indication of the passage of one sheet of stacked material past the sensor array 32. 
 The waveform shown in FIG. 2A is highly idealized to permit its being illustrated readily. Ordinarily Afican be 1/100 or less of the total average brightness. Further, since in many embodiments of the inventive system, the movement of thesensor array relative to the stacked material is manually accomplished, variations in the period d of the frequency attributable to scanning individual sheets, are also introduced. Since this variation is impressed on the slow cyclic variations in Bthat are usually encountered, normal high pass or turned filter means for separating the unwanted low frequency from the wanted highest frequency that is indicative of the quantity of stacked sheets, are unusable. 
 It is an advantageous feature of the invention that the signal stripping problems encountered and insoluable with ordinary filters, are overcome by the signal stripping circuit generally shown at 42. This circuit 42, with the circuit parameters of the invention, has the capability of stripping out the highest frequency present in the complex wave train output of sensor array 32 and providing a square wave output amenable to conventional digital counting techniques. 
 As shown in Fig. l, the preferred embodiments of the operational amplifier 44 of signal stripping circuit 42 is of the type employing metallic oxide silicon field effect transistors (MOSFET). In the signal stripping circuit 42, input resistor 47 and feedback resistor 45 establish an amplifier voltage gain of 6000, silicon diodes 46 and 48 when fully conducting establish a saturating voltage of 0.6 volt with an input coupled through capacitor 50. With an amplifier gain of 6000, a change of 0.0001 volts in the input signal at 2A, will result in an output of +0.6 volts to drive the output of amplifier 44 into the clamp of diode 46. Any further increase in the plus direction in the signal input, causes diode 46 to conduct and thus maintain the charge on capacitor 50 in exact matching relationship with the incoming waveform. 
With diode 46 conducting, the operational amplifier 44 is essentially shorted from inputto output with the maximum voltage of the output being maintained at the potential necessary to overcome the diode junction potential; i.e., approximately 0.6 volts. As soon as there is a reversal in the waveform of the incoming signal 2A, the diode 46 ceases conduction and, when the signal has changed direction by 0.0002 volts, diode 48 will begin to conduct. As described with reference to diode 46, any further increase in the reversed signal will then cause diode 48 to clamp the operational amplifier 44 and the charge on capacitor 50 will exactly match the incoming wave. Thus, each time there is a reversal in the waveform of the incoming wave train in the aggregate amount of 0.0002 volts, the output of the signal stripping circuit 42 will reverse and there will appear at its output a square wave whose form is as shown in FIG. 2B, each cycle of which is indicative of the passage of one sheet of material past sensor 32. The values described for the stripping circuit 42 are exemplary only. If stripping at a higher or lower signal level is desired, the amplifier gain can be appropriately changed. 
 The square wave atthe output of stripping circuit 42 is processed in a conventional bistable level multivibrator 52, the output of multivibrator 52 being illustrated in FIG. 2C. The wave train of FIG. 2C is coupled to the input of pulse forming amplifier 54. The spiked output wave train of amplifier 54 is illustrated in FIG. 2D. As will be obvious to those skilled in the electronic counting arts, the FIG. 2D wave train is ideal in form for an input to the conventional decade counter 56 to which it is applied. From the foregoing, it can be seen that the inventive system will count the number of individual sheets its sensor is passed across as long as there are apparent brightness reversals associated with each sheet of the stacked material. 
In the foregoing description of FIG. 1, a coplanar relationship of the sensor array and illumination source was shown and described, and for most stacked materials, such a relationship is preferred. However, with certain materials such as stacked can lids, sharpened razor blades, and the like, it has proven advantageous to depart from this coplanar relationship as schematically indicated by double ended arrows 31 and 35 which indicate inclinations of the optical axes. Further, if the stacked materials or sheets are loosely arranged, it is often advantageous to match to the average center-to-center distance of the individual stacked objects or sheets rather than the thickness of a single sheet. 
 There are certain conditions and materials where the signature of the stacked material is more difficult to sense than that of the material shown in FIG. 1. For example, with tightly stacked boxboard or plastic sheets, it is not unusual to encounter a condition where there are quite different reflectances on adjacent sheets and no dark areas associated with each sheet. Such a reflectance signature is shown in the wave train illustrated in FIG. 3 and represents an extreme case such as is encountered with stacked plastic credit cards or similar materials. Since in the FIG. 3 wave train there are no reversals in brightness during the first 5 cards, ambiguities are present which could cause errors if the simple apparatus of FIG. 1 is employed to effect the count. Where, as in this example, the stacked plastic cards are credit cards, an error in counting of even one per 1000 is intolerable even though such an error would be entirely satisfactory in counting corrugated boxboard or other lower value material. Thus, it is essential for such potentially high value materials, that the signature ambiguities be resolved. It is a feature of the'invention that these ambiguities can be resolved. It is a feature of the invention that these ambiguities can be resolved with the sensor array configured as illustrated in FIG. 4. 
 As shown in FIG. 4, the sensor array comprises two photosensors 58 and 60 and these are advantageously positioned in a particular spatial relationship to the stacked plastic cards 84, and the light source 62. Individual ones of the cards are designated a, b, c, etc. The two photosensors are physically placed adjacent one another on an image plane 64 that is proximately parallel to the face of the stacked cards. The sensors are separated from each other by as small a gap as practical, 0.001 inch being typical. The two sensors comprising the array are electrically connected together in parallel opposition and their output connected to preamplifier 41 and subsequent circuitry that is identical to the signal processing circuit shown in FIG. 1 that processes the signal from a sensor array having but a single sensor. Positioned between the sensor array 58-60 and the stacked cards are two guillotine-type masks 66' and 66". The space between the two masks is adjusted so that the image 70 of the paired photosensors of the array as projected on the edge of the stacked cards by objective lens 68, is substantially equal in width to the pitch p" of an individual one of the cards in the stack to be counted. 
 When light source 62 is focused by condensing lens 74 to illuminate a lighted area 76 on the object plane, and the entire combination of source and sensor array with associated optics is caused to scan the stacked cards from a to f (etc.), the photosensors each generate an output signal such as shown in Flg. 5A. With a pair of sensors connected in parallel opposition as shown, their composite output wave train is as shown in FIG. 5B. This parallel differential output of the sensors approximates the first derivative of brightness across the elements of the stack; that is, since each of the sensors is only looking at a segment of one cards edge, that segments brightness ([3), represents a part of the total brightness of the one card 5 EDGE. THEN, THE DIFFERENCE IN BRIGHTNESS FROM oNE SEGMENT TO ANOTHER APPROXIMATES THE FIRST DERIVATIVE; l s -A8 =d/3/dp. The wave train output of the paired sensor array, as shown in FIG. 5B, is a close approximation to the output of the single sensor of FIG. 1 as shown in FIG. 2A. Thus, the sensor array comprising a differential cell pair provides good ambient brightness rejection and resolves the ambiguities present when there are no reversals in brightness between adjacent cards, as shown in FIGS. 3 and 5. 
Further, when the sensor array is so comprised, its output is entirely suitable for operating the signal processing circuitry of FIG. 1. 
 As shown in FIG. 4, the sensor array 58-60 lies in image plane 64. As also shown, the optical axes 78 and 82 of the light source and sensor respectively, are inclined with respect to normal line 80 which is perpendicular to stacked cards 84, and the two axes and the normal are preferably included in a common plane. The angles a and a are variable within very wide ranges, the particular angles for any one sensor-source combination being empirically determined based upon the edge reflectance characteristics of the stacked sheets of the stack. In general, the angles are chosen so that nonambiguous contrast associated with each sheet is maximized. Almost universally, maximum nonambiguous contrast is achieved when the angles are such that the resultant illumination as viewed by the sensor is principally lambertian in character rather than specular. This is ordinarily achieved by making the total included angle comprising the illumination angle, oqplus the sensing angle, a equal to somewhat less than and by maintaining a less than 30. 
 Lambertian illumination is preferred over specular since with specular illumination there is a tendency to pick up false signals due to the surface roughness present in the edge of the sheet. The false signals caused by surface roughness are generally at a maximum when a, and a are 0 or substantially equal and of opposite sign. 
 Another factor in establishing angles a,and a is maintaining focus. Since the best signals are achieved when the image of the sensor array is in focus on the sheet edges, it is desirable that maximum depth of focus be maintained for objective lens 68 and this occurs with a at 0. Then oqcan be increased to achleve the objective of lambertian illumination while maintaining depth of focus. However, in achieving this lambertian quality, as a, approaches 90illumination level is lost due to the grazing character of the light incident on the surface of the sheet edges. As a result, it is necessary to make some compromise in the angle of illumination oqso that the total objective of lambertian illumination with maximum signal can be achieved. For nonmetallic elements such as boxboard and plastic sheets, contrast has been maximized when the illumination angle a,has been set at approximately 60 and sensing angle a,at approximately as shown in FIG. 4. 
 Where the contrast is -very low, signal characteristics are enhanced by the use of multiple sensor arrays. Such a configuration is illustrated in FIG. 6. 
 In FIG. 6, two sensor arrays, each comprising a pair of sensors, are utilized, each array being imaged on an individual sheet, the two arrays being imaged on adjacent sheets. The optical arrangement of Flg. 6 is identical to that of FIG. 4 except that the masks 66' and 66" have been dispensed with and two sensor arrays are employed in place of one. The four photosensors 86, 88, 90, and 92, comprising the two arrays, are imaged on the edges 96 and 98 of stack 94 at 86'88'90 and 92' the prime designation indicating the image of its respective sensor, The two sensor arrays are of such a size and so spaced, considering the magnification of lens 68, that each array is substantially matched widthwise to the thickness of one sheet. Each sensor of a senor array is electrically con nected in parallel opposition to its corresponding sensor and thetwo arrays are connected in parallel, the summed parallel output being connected to preamplifier 41 in the same manner as the single sensor array. However, the use of multiple sensor arrays necessitates modification of the counter as is described below. 7 
 The advantages of utilizing a multiplicity of sensor arrays, each array comprising at least one sensor, can be appreciated if the reflectance characteristics of low contrast materials are considered. If in the illustration of .FIG. 6 it is assumed that 4 between sheets 96 and 98 there is zero contrast, while between the edges of sheets 98 and 99 there is sufficient contrast to effect an output from sensors 86 and 88, it can be seen that an output from the two cell pairs to preamplifier 41 will still be achieved. For even lower contrast materials, similar image enhancementisachieved if still more sensor arrays are added, each array being imaged on one sheet edge. However, the proliferation of sensor arrays is not without practical limit as FIG. 7 illustrates. With some materials a single sensor effectively matched to a fraction of the pitch of the stacked materials provides nonambiguous signal characteristics superior to a sensor pair. Signal enhancement can be provided by effectivef ly matching the center-to-center distance of adjacent ones of single sensors in a uniformly spaced multiple array to the pitch of the stacked materials. Thepractical limit of number of individual sensors in the array is similar to the limit of sensor pairs as illustrated in FIG. 7. 
' As can be appreciated, as the thickness of the sheets in a stack decreases, it becomes increasingly more difficult to effect a good match between the image of one sensor array and theedge thicknessof one sheet. With very thin sheets, on the order of the thickness of thin paper 0.002--0.004 inches), and with plural sensor arrays, the matching problems become quite severe. The effect of error in pitch matching of various numbers of arrays of sensor pairs, is illustrated in FIG. 7. As there shown, increasing the number of sensor arrays as is desirable for image enhancement purposes, increases the sensitivity of the system to pitch mismatch with consequentially increased counting error percentages. Similarly, using one sensor array with attendant reduced image enhancement, decreases the sensitivity to mismatch. In fact, with one sensor array, depending on the contrast variations present and the uniformity of thickness of the-stacked sheets, there can be usable signals right up to 95 to 98 percent mismatch. Why this is so is apparent if one considers a uniform increase or decrease in the image size of all of the elements of a multiple sensor pair array relative to a fixed thickness size of the sheets. 
 Another requirement encountered when more than one sensor array is utilized, is the necessity of effecting corrections in the counting circuit to compensate for the extra arrays, it 
being necessary to subtract one count for each array used in excess ofone. Such subtraction is accomplished by a modification of the Flg. lcircuit as shown in FIG. 8. As FIG. 8 illustrates, parallel connecting an auxiliary high speed momentary reset circuit with counters 56 will enable the subtraction operation at the beginning of counting. Circuit 100 accumulates as many counts as there are sensor arrays in excess of one and then resets counter 56 to zero as soon as that count is reached. Thus, if there are two sensor arrays, the reset circuit counts to one, then resets counter 56 to zero and then becomes inactive until the beginning of the next counting cycle. Thereafter, counter 56 would count as long as data is received. Reset circuit 100 remains'inactive until the counter 56 is manually reset after counting is complete. After resetting, reset circuit 100 is reactivated in preparation for again resetting counter 56. 
 The foregoing method of correcting the counting is satisfactory as long as the stacked material is tightly stacked and the edge of the stack does not have voids such as might be caused by warpage or setbacks in the sheets. When such a condition is encountered, a new method of subtracting to compensate for plural sensor arrays, is essential. A circuit used to correct-the count when voids are present in the edge of the stacked sheets being scanned and counted, is shown in FIG. 9 wherein circuit components that are identical to those of FIG. 1 are identified with the identical reference numeral plus one hundred. 
Sensors 202, 204, 206, and 208 are connected as shown to provide a two sensor pair array to enable image enhancement and also, to measure brightness for void and count correction purposes as explained below. The outputs of each sensor are er 222 through summing resistors 218 and 221 and 219 and 220. Resistor 224 provides a feedback path around amplifier 222, resistor 223 to ground advantageously being of the same value asresistor 224 to enable best common mode rejection. Amplifier 222 combines its input signals and provides an output signal equivalent to that from a two sensor array such as that of FIG. 6. This output signal is processed in stripping circuit I42, bistable multivibrator 152, pulse forming amplifier 154 and counter 156 in a manner identical to that described with respect to FIG. 1. 
 After amplification in operational amplifier 212, the output signal of the individual sensor whose image first traverses the stack 120, is applied through resistor 226 to a brightness analyzing circuit comprising a brightness reference amplifier 230. Amplifier 230 has as its second input, a reference potential applied through resistor 228 from terminal 240. Resistor 232 provides a feedback path around amplifier 230. By virtue of this connection of amplifier 230, the first cell traversing the stack can be used to measure the brightness of the stack, since the potential at the output of amplifier 230 corresponds to the sensed brightness level oscillating about a voltage level established by the potential applied at 240. This brightness output signal is shown at 10A in FIG. 10 wherein the level applied at terminal 240 is designated 240'. 
 Whenever a hole is encountered in the stack such as that shown at 242, the operate point of brightness reference amplifier 230 drops below a reference level and, as shown at 244 in FIG. 10, this reference level can conveniently and advantageously be one-half the level applied at 240. This drop trips monostable multivibrator 234 which generates a square output pulse. This pulse is processed in pulse forming amplifier 236 and passed to storage register 238. The pulse stored in register 238 is the output signal of the brightness analyzing circuit and can either be used immediately to blank out the next -counting pulse appearing in the wave train shown in FIG. 2 at Y D, or used later to subtract one count from that appearing on counter 156, the first alternative being preferred, since simplertoexecute. 
 Theforegoing description of a circuit for effecting the count correction necessary when holes are encountered in the stacked sheets, has been in terms of four sensors connected to be two sensor pairs. Obviously, this circuit will also effect the count correction required by the presence of the second sensor pair. This same circuit can also be used when more than two sensor pairs are employed, if amplifier 236 is used to generate appropriate numbers of additional pulses. This same circuit can also be used with a single sensor or multisensor array to effect a blanking of counting data when the sensor array passes by and receives signals from displaced surfaces. This blanking is'effected whenever the sensor output signal indicates a brightness level below a predetermined reference level such as illustrated in FIG. 10. 
 The foregoing discussion has indicated the desirability and necessity of achieving the best possible match between the image widths ofa sensor array and the thickness of one sheet. It is a feature of the invention that this match may be closely achieved by the inventive apparatus. A manual opticalmechanical method of determining and achieving pitch matching is shown somewhatschematically in FIG. 11. 
 In the apparatus of FIG. 11 a drum cam 246 is spaced a fixed distance 248 from the plane including the aligned edges of the sheets comprising stack 250. Cam 246 carries two cam grooves 252 and 254. Sensor carrier 256 is mounted above groove 252 and constrained to follow it in the direction -of double ended arrow 258 because of cam follower 260 and guide rails 262 and 264. Lens carrier266 is similarly constrained to follow groove 254 by a camfollower (not shown) and rails 262 and 264. Lens carrier 266 supports an objective lens 268 extending therethrough, while sensor carrier 256supports a multielement sensor array 270 and a grating 272, each positioned behind apertures in the carrier. Cam 246 is rotatable by means of knob 276 which is affixed to it by shaft 274. 
 The grooves'252 and 254 in cam 246 are so configured that by rotating the cam, holders 256 and 266 are moved relative to each other and to stack 250 so that the ratio of object size to image size can be varied over a wide range while maintaining distance 248 fixed and while maintaining a good focus at the image plane. In one embodiment with lens 268 an f 2.8 triplet of one-half inch focal length, the object size to-image size has been made variable over a 10 to 1 ratio. Thus, in this embodiment, for a sensor pair array width of 0.02 inch the sensor array width could be matched to sheet thicknesses varying between 0.007 inch and 0.07 inch. 
 In achieving the match of sensor array image width and sheet thickness, calibrations 282 on knob 276 can be set with' respect to index 280 as a first approximation. However, for best results, the pitch should be matched more closely than is possible with the index. It is an inventive feature that the desired closer match is achieved by using the principal of Moire optical interference patterns. These patterns are generated when two optical gratings of similar pitch are placed in proximity and viewed. In the FIG. 11 embodiment, an optical grating 272 of substantially identical pitch to that of a sensor array is positioned in the same image plane as the sensor array. Then when an observer 278 rotates the knob 276, the correct match of sensor array image width to sheet width will be achieved when a proper Moire image is formed by the combination of grating 272 and the image of stack 250. The determination of a proper Moire image is facilitated by placing the grating 272 at a slight angle with respect to the horizontal lines separating the sheets of the stack 250. This causes the appearance of vertical bars that reduce to a minimum number for the best match and whose numbers increase with increasing mismatch. 
 The foregoing described method of matching the pitch'of the image of a sensor array to the thickness of a sheet of material in the stack was manual in character, requiring'an ob-v server to observe and minimize Moire fringes. It is a feature of the invention that the output signals of a sensor pair comprising an array may themselves be utilized to automatically achieve the desired pitch match. The output signals of a sensorpair 284-286 of FIG. 13 are shown in FIG. l2.for a matched condition as well as an undermatched and overrnatched condition. In Flg. 12A the output of the two sensors is shown as 180 out of phase as is-the case when pitch match of the sensor lustrates the undermatch condition where the image of the sensor pair is less than the thickness of a sheet 288. Since for reasonable departures from a matching condition the phase of the signal output of sensor 286 with respect to that of sensor 284 varies about the 180 point in proportion to the mismatch present, the phasedifference can be employed as an error signal in a pitch matching servosystem such as that shown in FIG. 13. I 
 The FIG. 13 embodiment is similar to that of FIGS. 9 and 11 and. where identical, identical reference numerals have been employed. As in FIG. 11, the object to image size ratio obtaining is controlled by cam 246 and carriers 256 and 266 supporting the sensor array and objective lens, respectively. The outputs of sensors 284 and 286 are appliedto low drift opera-- tional amplifiers 290 and292each withits 180. resistors 294 and 296. The output of the two operational amplifiers is coupled into differential amplifier 222 and servo combined output signal passed to capacitor 150 and the ensuing circuitry shown in FIG. 9 but eliminated here for the sake of drawing simplicity. 
 Demodulator-310 is arranged to produce-a zero DC output potential when the phase of sensor 286 is 180 with respect to that of sensor 284. When the phase of sensor 286 increases beyond l80the output voltage of demodulator 310 goes positive to a potential proportional to the phase shift. A similar condition occurs with a negative output potential when the phase difference is less than 180. The output of demodulator- 310 is applied to DC servoamplifier 312 through resistor 314,. feedback resistor 316 and servo loop stabilizing circuit 316- being connected in conventional manner between the input and output of amplifier 312. The output of amplifier 312 is applied to DC servomotor 320 which rotates shaft 322 and hence cam 246 to correct the sensor phase difference to 180. For setting convenience, a knob (not shown) is preferably employed on shaft 322 to enable a first approximation of pitch match to be made manually. 
 FIG. 14 illustrates another method of automatically achieving a pitch match utilizing the phase error determining circuitry of FIG. 13. In place of cam 246 and carrier arrangement of that FIG., guillotine blades 330 and 332 are arranged to selectively mask the sensors 284 and 286 in the manner described in connection withFlG. 4. However, the two guillotine blades are differentially connected for adjusting movement by means of racks 326 and 328 and pinion 324. Pinion 324 is secured to the output shaft of DC servomotor 320. For 
the sake of illustrative simplicity, the guides forblades 330 t and 332 and a manual. setting knob have not been shown. By means of this rack and pinion differential arrangement, whenever there is a pitch 'overmatch or phase difference in excess of 180 the guillotine blades are driven toward one another and similarly but apart for a pitch undermatch. 
 When an array of multiple sensor pairs is used for signal enhancement, it is often desirable to use the outputs of alternate sensor elements as the inputs to AC amplifiers 298 and 300. In this case, the demodulator 310 and polarity of the entire width control servo loop aredesigned to provide a-stable null when the phase difference of signal inputs to AC amplifiers 298 and 300 is 0 insteadof as is the case with inputs from the two elements of a single sensor pair. 
 One of the most difficult of materials to count by-electrooptical-electrical methods is corrugated boxboard such as is shown in FIGS. 15 and 16. The difficulty arises because of the relatively large amount of contrast variations present, as can be appreciated when considering FIG. 15. As there shown, when the corrugated is both viewed and illuminated normal to the surface, the outside surface of the flutes 336 and the areas surrounding the flutes is dark, and the liner edges 338 as well as the flute edges appears bright. As a consequence of this and of flute location, counting of contrast edges does not result in an accurate count. It is a particular feature of the invention that the ambiguities which result in the inaccurate counting of corrugated are overcome by viewing the corrugated as shown in FIG. 16 and as implemented with the inventive structural embodiment described with respect to FIG. 17. 
 As shown in FIG. 16, it has been discovered that viewing and illuminating the edge of the corrugated at an oblique angle will, if the angle is properly chosen, resolve the ambiguities which cause the inaccurate count. It has been found that if the sensing angle his between 40 and 60 and the illumination angle Ois within 20 of the sensing angle, the viewer (or sensor) 340, viewing the same stack of corrugated as viewed head-on in FIG. 15, perceives an entirely different set of contrast conditions. The illumination source 410 is focused by condensing lens 412 upon the corrugated material edges at the angle Othereto and the viewer 340 is positioned as shown with respect to the source and the corrugated material. With the illumination and sensing angles so disposed, the outside surfaces of the flutes 336 now appear as bright areas between the darker fluteedges 336 and top and bottom liner edges 338. 
4 Further, even if there is a void in the stack, that void appears brighter than the dark lines that are the flute edges. In order to prevent these dark lines from introducing false counting data, it can be seen that the sensor length should cover several convolutions of the flutes in order to integrate out this effect. Thus, counting the bright areas results in an exact count of the stack. The inventive sensor-light source supporting structure is shown in FIG. 17 which is a simplified cross section taken at 17-17 in FIG. 18. FIG. 18 is a view in perspective of the sensing head that is the subject matter of the aforementioned design patent application of Robert C. Sheriff. 
 As shown in FIG. 17, the sensing head 342 advantageously rests upon the edges of the corrugated material 344 it is desired to count. For ease and smoothness of operation, a curved baseshoe 346 contacts the stacked corrugated 344 as the sensing head is moved in the direction of arrow 348 (FIG. 18) to traverse the stack. Housing 350 affixed to base-shoe 346, provides support for the mechanical and optical elements of the sensing head. Photosensors 352 and 354 are affixed to a common substrate 356 which is in turn affixed to frame 350, sensors 352 and 354 advantageously being connected to circuitry such as illustrated in FIG. 3. The sensors 352 and 354 are positioned on an image plane located at the back-focus of objective lens 358 plus or minus l0 percent. Objective lens 358 in one illustrative embodiment has advantageously been anf2.8 with a 12.5 millimeter focal length Interposed between lens 358 and the photosensors 352 and 354 are two guillotine-type masks 360 and 362. The two masks are slideably positioned in grooves (not shown) in the housing 350 to enable their relative adjustment to effect pitch matching. This relative adjustment is achieved by means of rotating thumbwheel 3 64 which has affixed thereto pinion 366 which in turn, acts upon levers 368 and 370 affixed to the two guillotine blades. By observing through window 372 the graduations (not shown) upon the face of thumbwheel 364, an operator can select the desired pitch match. In this regard, it may be helpful to those unacquainted with corrugated to realize that such materials are made in several discrete sizes and that the graduations upon thumbwheel 364 can be in symbols indicating these sizes. For counting corrugated material while utilizing a single-sensor array, achieving a pitch match in this manner has proven entirely satisfactory. The optical axis 374 forming the center of the ray beam defined by lens 358 and the sensor array, is reflected by from surface fixed mirror 376 to pass through field lens 378 and thence, to emerge through aperture 380 to impinge upon the stacked corrugated material 344 being counted. In the preferred embodiment, field lens 378 has been a doublet with achromat characteristics and a 75 millimeter focal length. Such a lens when positioned at the front focal plane of objective lens 358, plus or minus 10 percent, adequately collimates the image of the sensor array; thus allowing for large offsets in the stacked material. 
 To ensure adequate illumination and against preferably output signals from the photosensor pair employed, there isprovided a light source 382 and filter means 386. Light source preferably comprises a lens-on-lamp." The light beam 388 is deflected by mirrors 384 and 376 in turn before passing through field lens 378 to illuminate the corrugated being counted. By suitably choosing the angle of mirror 384, the 
light beam 388 can be made nearly coaxial with the ray beam 374 to the sensor array. Because of this advantageous construction it is possible to maintain the angle within the optimum limits described above. 
 To ensure that ambient light does not generate erroneous counts, particularly when the sensing head is not in contact with material to be counted, there is provided a filter 386 in the optical path of the photosensors. By matching filter 386 to the spectral characteristics of the ambient surround, such erroneous counts can be eliminated. In one embodiment, there has advantageously been employed a Wratten-87C, Infrared band pass filter. This filter rejects both visible daylight and the light of fluorescent lamps while passing a high percentage of the IR radiation of light source 382 that is reflected from the corrugated material. 
In each of the foregoing described embodiments of the inventive apparatus employing an array of one or more sensor pairs, the individual sensor pair in each instance has the width of its image substantially matched to the thickness of one sheet of a stack to be counted. It is a feature of the invention that a single oscillating sensor may be employed to achieve the output equivalent of one or more sensor pairs. The embodiment schematically illustrated in FIG. 19 provides such an output. There, stacked sheets of material to be counted, 390, are positioned beneath photosensor 392 mounted in an oscillating arm 394. Arm 394 is oscillated about pivot axis 396 between two fixed positions indicated in phantom outline at 394' and 394" by a conventionalmoving coil type of electromechanical drive schematically indicated by arm drive coil 398. Coil 398 is excited by an AC reference signal applied to the circuitry at terminal 400. The combination of oscillation and physical size of the sensor 392 must result in a scan excursion equal to the thickness of one or more of sheets 390 depending on the number of sensor array equivalents desired. 
 An image of the sheet edges is formed by objective lens 402 in or substantially in the plane of movement of oscillating arm 394 and specifically in the plane of photosensor 392. Advantageously the shape of sensor 392 has been made long and narrow with its major axis parallel to that of arm 394. This shape and alignment provides an averaging effect to aid in overcoming any false data effect caused by variations in individual sheet reflectance. I 
 In practice, the frequency of oscillation of arm 394 is several times higher than any frequency generated by traversing the sensor image across the contrast variations in sheets 390. This insures that the output signal representative of contrast variations can be separated from the oscillation signal component. The signal output of sensor 394 is amplified in a low drift operational amplifiers 404 having an associated feedback resistor 406 which raises the signal potential. The output of amplifier 404 is applied to demodulator/filter 408 where it is synchronously demodulated by the same oscillation frequency applied to arm 394 at terminal 400. After demodulation and filtering, the signal at the output of demodulator/filter 408 is equivalent to that generated by any sensor array and can be applied and processed in the same signal processing circuitry as is shown in FIG. 1. 
 The foregoing description has been in terms of electrooptical sensors. However, any transducer may be employed that 13 can be pitch matched and detect a contrast characteristic associated with individual ones of stacked elements, accoustical, magnetic, fluidic, capacitive, etc., including where necessary an appropriate source of energy directed at the sensed area of the stacked objects. Further, for the sake of simplicity in illustration, electro-optical sensing methods are shown in the drawing and FIGS. 9, l1, l3, l4, and 19 do not illustrate the presence of a light source such as is shown in FIGS. 1, 4, and 6. However, although in certain environments a light source may be dispensed with, in the majority of instances where eleetrooptical sensors are employed the use of such a source is preferred since it enable the use of filters to ensure ambient rejection in the manner described in connection with FIG. 17 and further, permits peaking of sensor output in the spectral region of greatest sensor sensitivity. 
 The invention has been described in detail herein with particular reference to preferred embodiments thereof. However, it will be understood that variations and modifications can be effected within the spirit and scope of the invention as described hereinabove and as defined in the appended claims. 
We claim: 
 I. An apparatus for counting the quantity of a plurality of similar objects stacked adjacent one another and not having special treatment to facilitate sensing or counting, comprising at least one sensor means comprising a sensor array, the effective width of each of said sensor means being between 20 percent and 100 percent of the thickness of one of said similar stacked objects, the width' axis of said sensor means being disposed substantially parallel to the thickness axis of each of said similar stacked objects, said sensor array generating signals indicative of a natural contrast characteristic of individual ones of said similar stacked objects, frame means supporting and connected to said sensor array for enabling relative movement between said sensor array and the edges of said similar. stacked objects while enabling orientation of said width axis of said sensor. 
means substantially parallel to said thickness axis of each of said similar stacked objects to thereby generate output signals indicative of said quantity, 
filter means connected to said sensor array for enhancing-a frequency component of said output signals indicative of said natural contrast characteristic of individual ones of said similar stacked objects, and 
signal processing and counting means connected to said filter means andresponsive to the enhanced output signals therefrom to count said quantity of said similar stacked objects. 
 2. An apparatus for counting in accord with claim 1 wherein the effective length of a single sensor means is between 3 and times the thickness of a single stacked object. 
 3. An apparatus for counting in accord with claim 1 further comprising width control means for said sensor array, said width control means being adapted to enable the adjustment of the effective width of each of said sensor means to between percent and 100 percent of the thickness of one of said stacked objects. 
 4. An apparatus for counting in accord with claim'3 wherein said width control means comprises optical imaging means for imaging said sensor array upon said edges of said stacked .objects and means for effecting relative movement between said edges, said imaging means and said sensor array to thereby effect said adjustment of said effective width. 
5. An apparatus for counting in accord with claim 3 wherein said width control means comprises optical grating means, optical imaging means for imaging said grating means upon said edges of said stacked objects and means for effecting relative movement between said edges, said imaging means and said grating means to thereby generate a Moire optical interference pattern indicate of the degree of conformance of said effective width of said sensor array. 
 6. An apparatus for counting in accord with claim 3 wherein said width control means comprises masking means inter- 14 posed between said sensor array and said objects to enable said adjustment of said effective width. 
 7. An apparatus for counting in accord with claim 3 wherein said sensor array comprises at least one pair of sensor means, and said width control means further comprises demodulator means connected. at its input to the separate outputs of two separate sensor means to thereby generate a servo error signal at its output proportional to the phase mismatch of said separate sensor means signal outputs, and servo means responsive to said servo error signal to effect said adjustment of said effective width. 
 8. An apparatus for counting in'accord with claim 1 further comprising a source of radiation positioned in said frame means and arranged to illuminate an area of the edges of said stacked objects, and means for controlling the illumination angle of said radiation upon said edges and the sensing angle ofsaid sensor to enable its viewing said illuminated area. 
 9. An apparatus for counting in accord with claim 8 wherein said means for controlling the sensing angle maintains said angle between normal and 20 from normal with respect to said edges and said means for controlling the illumination angle maintains said angle substantially greater than said sensing angle. 
10. An apparatus for counting in accord with claim 8' wherein said sensing angle as measured from a normal to said edges is between 40 and 60 and said illumination angle is within 20 of said sensing angle. 
 ll. An apparatus for counting. in accord with claim 8, further comprising radiation band pass filter means mounted in said frame means and interposed between said sensor array and said stacked objects to thereby enable rejection of radiation components-of the ambient surround not substantially identical to radiation from said source. 
12. An apparatus for counting in accord with claim 1 wherein said filter means comprises signal stripping circuit means connected to the output of said sensor array and. responsive to theoutput signals thereof to strip out and. provide at its outputthe highest frequency signal component thereof to provide counter driving signals components thereof to provide counter driving signals indicative of the quantity of said edges passing by said sensor array. 
 13, An apparatus for counting in accord with claim 12 wherein said signal stripping circuit means comprises a capacitive input coupling connected to a diode clamped high gain operational amplifier, said counter driving signals being a wave train comprising a plurality of square pulses indicative of the number of said edges passing ,by said sensor array. 
14. Counting apparatus in accord with claim 12' further comprising count correcting circuit means connected at its input to the output of the sensor means whose image first traverses said edges and at its output to said counting means, said circuit means being adapted to correct the count of said counting mean whenever the brightness level detected by said sensor means whose image first traverses said edges, falls below a predetermined brightness level. 
 15; Counting apparatus in accord in accord with claim 12 further comprising count correcting reset circuit means connected at its input to the output of said stripping circuit means and at its output to said counting means, said reset circuit means comprising an auxiliary high speed momentaryreset circuit for accumulating as many counts as there are sensor arrays in excess of one and, when that count is reached, resetting said counting circuit to zero. 
 16. An apparatus for counting in accord with claim 1 wherein said sensor array comprises one pair of sensor means, the signals from each sensor of said pair being effectively combined in parallel opposition to thereby generate said sensor array generated signals. 
 17. An apparatus for counting in accord with claim 1 wherein said sensor array comprises two or more pairs of sensor means, the signals from each sensor of a senor pair being effectively combined in parallel opposition with the signals from'th'e other sensor of the same sensor pair and said two or more sensor pairs being effectively connected in parallel to another and not having special treatment to facilitate sensing or counting, comprising at least one sensor means comprising a sensor array, the effective width of each of said sensor means being between percent and lOO percent of the thickness of one of said similar stacked objects, 
frame means supporting and connected to said sensor array for enabling relative movement between said sensor array and the edges of said similar stacked objects to thereby generate output signals indicative of said quantity, and 
width control means and objective lens means and field lens means all mounted in said frame means, said field lens means being positioned intermediate said objective lens means and said stacked objects, and said objective lens means being located intermediate said sensor array and said field lens means and at the back focus of said field lens within 10 percent, said sensor array being positioned to be focused by said objective lens in a plane located in the plane of said field lens within 10 percent of the focal distance thereof, said width control means enabling ad- I justment of said effective width of said sensor means. 
 19. An apparatus for generating signals indicative of the quantity of a plurality of similar objects stacked adjacent one another, comprising at least one sensor means comprising a sensor array, said sensor array comprising oscillation means for effecting the periodic oscillation of the image of said sensor means across said edges, and demodulator and filter means connected to the output of said sensor means for synchronously demodulating said output signals to thereby generate a filtered output signal equivalent to the output of one or more sensor pairs and frame means supporting and connected to said sensor array for enabling relative movement between said sensor array and the edges of said stacked objects to thereby generate output signals indicative of said quantity. 
 20. An apparatus for counting the quantity of a plurality of similar objects stacked adjacent one another and not having special treatment to facilitate sensing or counting, comprising: 
at least one sensor means comprising a sensor array, said sensor array being adapted to generate signals indicative of a natural contrast characteristic of individual ones of said similar stacked objects,. 
a source of radiation for illuminating the edges of said similar stacked objects, the width of the illuminated area from said radiation source on said similar stacked objects being between 20 percent and 100 percent of the thickness of one of said similar stacked objects, the width axis of said illuminated area being disposed substantially parallel to the thickness axis of each of said similar stacked object, 
frame means supporting and connected to said sensor array and said radiation source for enabling relative movement between said frame supported sensor array and said radiation source and the edges of said plurality of similar objects while enabling orientation of said width axis of said illuminated area substantially parallel to said thickness axis of each 'of said similar stacked objects to thereby generate output signals indicative of said quantity, 
filter means connected to said sensor array for enhancing a frequency component of said output signal indicative of said natural contrast characteristic of individual ones of said similar stacked objects, and 
signal processing and counting means connected to said filter means and responsive to the enhanced output signals therefrom to count said quantity of said similar stacked objects. h i 21. An apparatus for counting In accord with claim 20 further comprising width control means for said radiation source, said width control means being adapted tenable the adjustment of the effective width of said radiation source to between 20 percent and 100 percent of the thickness of one of said similar objects. 
 22. An apparatus for counting in accord with claim 21 wherein said width control means comprises masking means interposed between said radiation source and said similar objccts toenablc aid adjustment of said effective width. 
 23. An apparatus for counting the quantity of a plurality of similar objects stacked adjacent one another and not having special treatment to facilitate sensing or counting, comprising a sensor array comprising at least one sensor pair, the effective width of each of said sensor pairs being between SO/N percent less than the thickness of one of said similar stacked objects and /N percent more than the thickness of one of saidsimilar stacked objects, where sensor pairs N is the number of said, the width axis of said sensor pairs being disposed substantially parallel to the thickness axis of each of said similar stacked objects, said sensor array generating signals indicative of a characteristic of individual ones of said similar stacked objects, 
frame means supporting and connected to said sensor array for enabling relative movement between said sensor array and the edges of said similar stacked objects while enabling orientation of said width axis of said sensor pairs substantially parallel to said thickness axis of each of said similar stacked objects to thereby generate output signals indicative of said quantity, 
filter means connected to said sensor array for enhancing a frequency component of said output signals indicative of individual ones of said similar stacked objects, and 
signal processing and counting means connected to said filter means and responsive to the enhanced output signals therefrom to count said quantity of said similar stacked objects.