Utility high performance capability assessment 
US-8311863-B1
Accenture Global Services Limited
2012-11-13
https://patents.google.com/patent/US8311863B1/en
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
This application claims the benefit of priority from Provisional Application Ser. No. 61/154,832, entitled Utility High Performance Capability Assessment, filed Feb. 24, 2009, and which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
1. Technical Field
This disclosure concerns a system and method to identify the performance of an organization on a scale of mastery across representative capabilities of the organization's industry. In particular, this disclosure relates to an efficient and cost effective way to assess the performance capability level of key assessment areas within the processes of a utility organization
2. Background Information
Modern utility organizations operate in an increasingly challenging environment. To survive, utility organizations must adapt to this environment and execute in a clear, consistent, and efficient manner. Furthermore, the regularity requirements and resource management challenges of utility businesses greatly increase the complexity and difficulty of surviving on a day-to-day basis.
Despite the need for a utility organization to meet the challenges of the global marketplace, it is still often the case that the business lacks clarity, consistency, and well-defined execution of its core processes. These shortcomings severely constrain the business, and lead directly to inefficiencies and waste due to unnecessary complexity, process exceptions, and customer dissatisfaction. At the same time, it can be very difficult to identify specific processes to which improvements may be made, either because the business itself does not have the expertise to identify the processes or because the complexities of the business frustrate attempts to clearly delineate the processes to be improved.
Even if the utility business, on its own, could identify one of the many processes that it needs to improve, the business would not necessarily know how to improve the process or be able to identify a concrete and measurable improvement goal. Another difficulty exists in determining whether there are any intermediate goals that should be reached along the way. As utility businesses struggle to meet the demands of the modern economic landscape, they fail to identify opportunities for maximizing compliance and margin improvement, category expansion, multi-channel execution, selling performance, customer satisfaction improvement, and to reach other important goals.
Therefore, a need exists for an efficient and effective system and method to assess the performance level of key assessment areas within the processes of an organization.
SUMMARY
A high performance capability assessment (HPCA) model helps utility businesses meet the challenges of the global marketplace by defining a scale of performance mastery along which the current practices of the business may be located. The HPCA model accelerates the discovery of process and performance gaps within business operations. In addition, the HPCA model also helps the business to identify specific areas in which improvements may be made, how to make the improvements, and how to establish performance measures during the course of attempting to achieve an ultimate goal. As a result, the business can achieve the clarity, consistency, and well-defined execution of core processes that maximize the operating budget for optimum outcomes.
The HPCA model includes a key factor dimension and a performance mastery scale dimension. The performance mastery scale dimension defines multiple mastery levels. The performance mastery levels form a scale of increasing organizational performance. The scale includes a ‘Basic’ mastery level, a ‘Threshold’ mastery level, an ‘Above Average’ mastery level, and a ‘Leading’ mastery level. Each performance mastery level includes criteria specific to a corresponding key assessment area. Each key assessment area identifies some aspect of a capability of a business.
A business capability can be defined as a bundle of closely integrated skills, knowledge, technologies, and cumulative learning that is exercised through a set of processes and that collectively represents an organization's ability to create value by producing outcomes and results. Capability area does not represent a delineation of organizational responsibilities as the business outcomes of a capability may be the result of a number of cross-functional teams. Capabilities of a business may be grouped into platforms. For example, the HPCA model groups the capabilities of the utility industry into eleven high-level platforms, including a manage retail strategy platform, a manage interaction platform, a manage core operations platform, a manage supply platform, a manage field requests platform, a manage retail insight platform, a customer advocacy platform, a monitor performance platform, a manage compliance platform, a manage quality and performance platform, and a manage third party interaction platform. Platforms may include sub-platforms, as well as capabilities. For example, the manage retail strategy platform may include sub-platforms for manage investments, manage regulatory affairs, manage customer strategy, and manage product/service strategy, where each sub-platform may contain the capabilities.
The key factor dimension establishes a set of key assessment areas in which to analyze the capabilities of a business. Key assessment areas include performance capability criteria. Performance capability criteria populate the performance capability assessment model. The performance capability criteria may be specific to any one of many different business capabilities. For example, the manage investments sub-platform (corresponding to the manage retail strategy platform) includes performance capability criteria for long and medium term planning, investment and analysis, capital and OM budgeting, and investment review key assessment areas, at each of the capability levels along the performance capability scale dimension. Any number of performance capability assessment models and performance capability criteria may be defined and stored in a capability detail pool for subsequent retrieval and application to a business under examination. Accordingly, the HPCA model provides a flexible and adaptive scale of performance capability against which business practices may be compared to ascertain where the capabilities of a business under examination fall along the scale.
Other systems, methods, features, and advantages will be, or will become, apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following figures and detailed description. All such additional systems, methods, features, and advantages are included within this description, are within the scope of the invention, and are protected by the following claims.

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
The utility industry high performance capability assessment model and system may be better understood with reference to the following drawings and description. The elements in the figures are not necessarily to scale, emphasis instead being placed upon illustrating the principles of the capability assessment techniques. In the figures, like-referenced numerals designate corresponding parts throughout the different views.
 FIG. 1 shows a high performance capability assessment model with a performance scale of mastery and performance criteria shown for different capabilities.
 FIG. 2 shows a high performance capability assessment model with manage retail strategy capabilities shown.
 FIG. 3 shows a high performance capability assessment model with manage interaction capabilities shown.
 FIG. 4 shows a high performance capability assessment model with manage core operations capabilities shown.
 FIG. 5 shows a high performance capability assessment model with manage supply capabilities shown.
 FIG. 6 shows a high performance capability assessment model with manage field requests capabilities shown.
 FIG. 7 shows a high performance capability assessment model with manage retail insight capabilities shown.
 FIG. 8 shows a high performance capability assessment model with customer advocacy capabilities shown.
 FIG. 9 shows a high performance capability assessment model with monitor performance capabilities shown.
 FIG. 10 shows a high performance capability assessment model with manage compliance platform capabilities shown.
 FIG. 11 shows a high performance capability assessment model with manage quality and performance capabilities shown.
 FIG. 12 shows a high performance capability assessment model with manage third party interaction capabilities shown.
 FIG. 13 shows a capability detail pool providing a multidimensional utility industry performance reference set where multiple key assessment performance reference tables are collected and stored.
 FIG. 14 shows a capability assessment system.
 FIG. 15 shows a flow diagram for establishing high-performance capability assessment models.
 FIG. 16 shows a flow diagram for retrieving and applying high performance capability assessment models.
 FIG. 17 shows a flow diagram for analyzing representative practice data to determine a utility industry and a utility key assessment area to which the representative practice data applies.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
 FIG. 1 shows a utility high performance capability assessment (HPCA) model 100. The HPCA model 100 specifies eleven high-level platforms, including a manage strategy platform 102, a manage interaction platform 104, a manage core operations platform 106, a manage supply platform 108, a manage field requests platform 110, a manage retail insight platform 112, a customer advocacy platform 114, a monitor performance platform 116, a manage compliance platform 118, a manage quality and performance platform 120, and a manage third party interaction platform 122.
The manage strategy platform 102 includes all the capabilities required to strategically assess, formulate, and plan retail operations. The manage interaction platform 104 encompasses the capabilities that manage and operationalize customer contact through multiple touch points. The manage core operations platform 106 encompasses the management of all customer facing activity from attracting, sales activities, and ongoing support throughout the customer lifecycle. The manage supply platform 108 covers forecasting commodity demand and related procurement processes through to settlement. The manage field requests platform 110 covers the ability to manage requests for field services transactions. The manage retail insight platform 112 covers the ability to analyze transactional data to draw insight on customer behavior and corresponding operational implications. The customer advocacy platform 114 covers the treatment of escalated customer issues and recovery efforts. The monitor performance platform 116 provides a balanced and holistic view of retail operation performance. The manage compliance platform 118 provides a system of processes and controls to manage the security of customer information, financial information, compliance with laws and regulations, public relations and the delivery of effective internal operational controls. The manage quality and performance platform 120 encompasses capabilities to support and empower customer care employees at all stages of the employee lifecycle. The manage third party interaction platform 122 encompasses all interactions between a retail utility, vendors, and industry players.
The HPCA model 100 is not limited to the form shown in FIG. 1. Instead, the HPCA model 100 may be adapted and modified to fill a wide variety of analysis roles. Additional, different, or fewer platforms may be used in other implementations, with each platform defining additional, different, or fewer capabilities. Each platform includes one or more multiple capabilities 130 for the various platforms or sub-platforms.
The HPCA model 100 establishes a multidimensional utility industry performance reference set that includes multiple key assessment performance levels 138, further described below in reference Tables 1-3. The performance levels 138 establish a scale of increasing effectiveness in delivery of each capability. The key assessment performance reference tables include a ‘Basic’ 140 delivery level, a ‘Threshold’ 142 delivery level, an ‘Above Average’ 144 delivery level, and a ‘Leading’ 145 delivery level. The performance levels establish a scale of mastery 146 along which current business practices may be located and identified with respect to any platform and capability within a platform according to an analysis of performance capability criteria (PCC). The capability under evaluation may be assigned the performance level 138 based on a delivery effectiveness position 158 along the scale of mastery 146.
The ‘Basic’ delivery level 140 specifies ‘Basic’ performance assessment criteria, the ‘Threshold’ delivery level 142 specifies ‘Threshold’ performance assessment criteria, the ‘Above Average’ delivery level 144 specifies an ‘Above Average’ performance assessment criteria, and the ‘Leading’ delivery level 145 specifies ‘Leading’ performance assessment criteria. The HPCA model 100 receives input data that specifies a utility business platform (e.g., a retail utility industry area) and a utility industry key assessment area for analysis. The HPCA model 100 searches the multidimensional utility industry performance reference set for a matching key assessment performance reference table that matches the utility business industry platform and corresponding industry capability within the platform and the utility industry key assessment area, and retrieves the matching key assessment performance reference table. The HPCA model 100 initiates analysis of the matching key assessment performance reference table to obtain a resultant performance assessment level for the utility industry key assessment area.
Tables 1-3 below provide an explanation of each of the capability delivery levels 140, 142, 144, and 145.



 

 
 
 



TABLE 1


 


‘Basic’ Delivery Level


 




 




 
Description:
Capability mastery at a basic level provides 


 
 
minimal evidence of proficiency or demonstration 


 
 
of this capability, the minimum to operate, likely 


 
 
increasing costs or a negative influence on revenue.


 








 

 
 
 



TABLE 2


 


‘Threshold’ Delivery Level


 




 




 
Description:
Capability mastery at a threshold level is 


 
 
indicative of average proficiency or demonstration 


 
 
of this capability, neutral effect on cost or revenue.


 








 

 
 



TABLE 3


 


‘Above Average’ Delivery Level


 




 




Description:
Capability mastery at a above average level is more 


 
advanced than average demonstration of the capability, 


 
evidence of investment or priority treatment, 


 
industrialization or standardization leading to some 


 
cost reductions, capability is a competitive strength.


 








 

 
 



TABLE 4


 


‘Leading’ Delivery Level


 




 




Description:
Capability mastery at a leading level is more 


 
advanced than most Utilities, an industry leader. 


 
Likely industrialized or standardized to a high degree,


 
competitive strength for the Utility, strong influence 


 
on reducing costs or increasing revenue.


 





For FIGS. 2-12, the capability under evaluation may be assigned a level of mastery 138 based on the business's position along the scale of mastery 146 (e.g., the ‘basic,’ threshold; ‘above average,’ or ‘leading’ delivery level). Performance criteria corresponding to the basic 140, threshold 142, above average 144, and leading 145 performance levels populate the HPCA model 100. The performance criteria capture characteristics, and/or other features of the delivery of a capability at a particular performance level. Examples below illustrate performance criteria that provide analysis and benchmarking for utility organizations. The HPCA model 100 performance criteria provide a tool for determining where a platform and capability under examination falls along the scale of mastery 146.
For example, business consultants and business process engineers may interview a business or receive data about the business to determine, measure, or otherwise ascertain the characteristics, criteria, and other features of a particular capability implemented within the business. The consultants and engineers may compare the characteristics of the business to the performance criteria in the HPCA model 100 and arrive at an assessment level 138 for the capability under examination. In doing so, for example, the consultants and engineers may identify where the capability under examination falls in terms of the performance level for each key assessment area of a capability and determine an overall position on the scale of mastery 146 for the capability under examination. Performance criteria may populate the HPCA model 100 in whole or in part. Multiple high performance capability assessments may be collected and stored with the performance criteria for future retrieval and possible modification in a capability detail pool, discussed below.
 FIG. 2 shows the manage retail strategy platform 102 divided into respective capability areas 202. The manage retail strategy platform 102 includes sub-platforms 204 for manage investments 206, manage regulatory affairs 208, manage customer strategy 210, and manage product/service strategy 212. Multiple capability descriptions 220 may be shown for each platform or sub-platform.
 FIG. 3 shows the manage interaction platform 104 divided into respective capability areas 302. The manage interaction platform 104 includes a sub-platform for channel management 304. Multiple capability descriptions 320 may be shown for each platform or sub-platform.
 FIG. 4 shows the manage core operations platform 106 divided into respective capability areas 402. The manage core operations platform 106 includes sub-platforms 404 for market 406, sell 408, and serve 410. Multiple capability descriptions 420 may be shown for each platform or sub-platform.
 FIG. 5 shows the manage supply platform 108 divided into respective capability areas 502. Multiple capability descriptions 520 may be shown for each platform or sub-platform.
 FIG. 6 shows the manage field requests platform 110 divided into respective capability areas 602. Multiple capability descriptions 620 may be shown for each platform or sub-platform.
 FIG. 7 shows the manage retail insight platform 112 divided into respective capability areas 702. The manage retail insight platform 112 includes sub-platforms 704 for data management 706, market insight 708, sell insight 710, and serve insight 712. Multiple capability descriptions 720 may be shown for each platform or sub-platform.
 FIG. 8 shows the customer advocacy platform 114 divided into respective capability areas 802. Multiple capability descriptions 820 may be shown for each platform or sub-platform.
 FIG. 9 shows the monitor performance platform 116 divided into respective capability areas 902. Multiple capability descriptions 920 may be shown for each platform or sub-platform.
 FIG. 10 shows the manage compliance platform 118 divided into respective capability areas 1002. Multiple capability descriptions 1020 may be shown for each platform or sub-platform.
 FIG. 11 shows the manage quality and performance platform 120 divided into respective capability areas 1102. Multiple capability descriptions 1120 may be shown for each platform or sub-platform.
 FIG. 12 shows the manage third party interaction platform 122 divided into respective capability areas 1202. Multiple capability descriptions 1220 may be shown for each platform or sub-platform.
The following Tables 5-71 provide an explanation of the capabilities and corresponding key assessment areas and performance criteria for each capability within the respective platform. Each capability may include one or more key assessment areas. Each key assessment area may include one or more additional key assessment areas. In other words, a business capability may include sub-capabilities, and therefore, key assessment areas corresponding to the multiple sub-capabilities. The tables below show specific criteria used to analyze each capability.
The following Tables 5-20 provide an explanation of the capabilities and corresponding key assessment areas and performance capability criteria for each capability within the manage retail strategy platform 102.



 

 
 



TABLE 5


 


Manage Retail Strategy


Manage Investments


Long & Medium Term Planning


 




 




Description:
Long & Medium Term Planning integrates business strategies into plans


 
to achieve the retail utility's vision of the future. The long and medium-


 
term business plans developed during strategic planning are used to


 
develop approaches for future investments and capital allocation.


Basic Criteria:
Planning carried out with little guidance in the form of planning


 
policies and guidelines supported by limited planning and


 
forecasting capabilities


 
Limited planning beyond year ahead


 
Examination of current state based on last year's activity


 
No tools beyond spreadsheets used for performance trends


 
No market data or trends are used to aid in the planning cycle


 
Some longer term plans (2-5 years) for specific programs


 
Differing unit plans are held in different formats or systems


 
making integration difficult


 
No single aggregated view of investment plan, except for specific


 
programs


Threshold Criteria:
Planning carried out by individual units using central guidelines


 
and is supported by select individuals from various departments


 
with strong planning and forecasting skills


 
No standard process to determine retail capability vulnerabilities


 
Historical activity adjusted for known unusual events and forward


 
looking targets used to examine current capabilities


 
Aggregated past market data used to aid planning cycle


 
Mainly spreadsheet based tools used to review performance trends


 
Comprehensive investment plan for 3-5 year high-level forecasts


 
Integrated view of plan built up for business plan, but limited to


 
financial information


Above Average
Central function manages longer term planning, guided by a


Criteria
comprehensive set of planning guidelines and is supported by a


 
highly skilled team in planning and forecasting


 
Examination of current capabilities based on adjustments to


 
historical baseline, derived from statistical trend analysis and


 
forward looking targets


 
Quantitative and qualitative understanding of markets incorporated


 
into planning


 
Non-formalized process in place to assess deficient areas on a case


 
by case basis


 
Some use of sensitivity and scenario analysis carried out to test


 
plans


 
Limited use of more advanced decision support tools to review


 
performance trends


 
Rolling 5 year integrated plan, supplemented by longer term


 
forecasts for specific programs


 
Aggregated and aligned plan generated, but involves manual


 
processes


Leading Criteria:
Central function manages longer term planning, guided by a


 
comprehensive set of planning guidelines and is supported by a


 
highly skilled team in planning and forecasting


 
Examination of current capabilities based on adjustments to


 
historical baseline, derived from statistical trend analysis and


 
forward looking targets


 
Quantitative and qualitative understanding of markets incorporated


 
into planning


 
Non-formalized process in place to assess deficient areas on a case


 
by case basis


 
Some use of sensitivity and scenario analysis carried out to test


 
plans


 
Limited use of more advanced decision support tools to review


 
performance trends


 
Rolling 5 year integrated plan, supplemented by longer term


 
forecasts for specific programs


 
Aggregated and aligned plan generated, but involves manual


 
processes


 








 

 
 



TABLE 6


 


Manage Retail Strategy


Manage Investments


Investment Analysis


 




 




Description:
Investment Analysis develops the comprehensive business cases 


 
required to enable strategic business decisions, related to policy and


 
planning direction, in a manner that optimizes risk and reward.


Basic Criteria:
Ad hoc process for analyzing projects


 
No coordinated methodology for segmentation of projects


 
No clear understanding of intentions for business modeling and 


 
analysis framework


 
Appraisal methods vary by project type and location


 
No clearly defined allocation criteria for investments or marketing 


 
initiatives


 
Lack of consistent methods for allocation


 
Limited amount of data available for use


 
Ad hoc authorization procedures


Threshold Criteria:
Projects prioritized as part of planning and budgeting cycle


 
process, but no framework or audit trail for decisions made


 
Projects only segmented by project size, budget category


 
Ad hoc cost-benefit analysis on certain projects with results being 


 
inconsistently applied


 
Consistent allocation criteria defined, but inconsistent application 


 
with no ability to roll up results into master reports


 
Data is available but is not fully leveraged


 
Defined procedure for approving investments and authorization


 
level for projects based on size of project


Above Average
Phasing of projects driven by a well-defined framework based on 


Criteria
business drivers and cost-benefit analysis


 
Investments segmented by drivers, project size and other factors, e.g. risk


 
Financial appraisal (payback period, NPV) in addition to technical 


 
evaluation utilized


 
Allocation criteria defined and understood and applied consistently by 


 
the business


 
Wide range of data available which is accurate and consistent


 
Authorization level and appraisal requirements based on size of


 
project and other factors - e.g. risk, level of discretion, investment driver


Leading Criteria:
Consistent use of decision support tools, sensitivity analysis and


 
scenario analysis for project analysis and the formulation of business 


 
cases


 
Regular process to review drivers of prioritization


 
Polices and processes to ensure projects segmented using a multi-


 
dimensional approach - size, driver, risk, level of discretion, etc.


 
Clear processes in place to distribute results for informed decision making


 
Easy collation of results into master plans for entire business units


 
Projects assessed on the basis of technical, financial, and risk


 
considerations using a standard ROI framework


 
Allocation criteria for each investment type are defined, clearly


 
communicated and implemented (financial, technical and operational 


 
characteristics)


 
Authorization and appraisal based on sophisticated segmentation of 


 
investment types allows greater focus on high risk projects, less


 
bureaucracy for small/low risk projects


 








 

 
 



TABLE 7


 


Manage Retail Strategy


Manage Investments


Capital & OM Budgeting


 




 




Description:
Capital & Operations Management Budgeting develops forecasts and


 
budgets for capital allocation, expenditures, and income from assets as


 
well as initiatives based on internal performance requirements and


 
stakeholder mandates.


Basic Criteria:
Central finance function set top down budget


 
Budget is seen as more of a reconciliation tool and is checked infrequently


 
Ad hoc usage of data tools to support budget planning


 
Cost of marketing initiatives not tracked


 
No standard measures used for budgeting


 
Bottom up plans to meet budget made ‘ad hoc’ with limited coordination


 
Budget based on previous years' budgets with central adjustment


 
No ability to re-allocate, adjust budgets across business units


 
Little to no linkage between overall planning and budgeting


Threshold Criteria:
Budgets are checked frequently


 
Data tools restricted to basic financial measures


 
Cost of marketing initiative execution monitored and managed


 
Traditional measures used for cost planning


 
Budget based on previous years' budgets with defined process for


 
accommodating local or exceptional events


 
Budget reports generated manually on a periodic (i.e. quarterly) basis


 
Some ability to adjust budgets, but no formal process - requires


 
time-consuming negotiation


 
Static links between overall planning and budgeting


Above Average
Plans driven mainly at local level, with limited visibility of higher


Criteria
level issues


 
Budgets are checked frequently and leveraged as strategic assets for decision 


 
making


 
Limited use of scenario based planning tools


 
Costs of marketing initiative execution are monitored and managed


 
individually


 
A top down plan made and communicated as a template for the


 
business units. Bottom up plans are then made within constraints set by the


 
top down plan


 
‘Zero-based’ plans utilized


 
Automated budget reports generated quarterly but standardized format 


 
not utilized


 
Formal governance and appeal process for re-allocating budgets


 
and for adjusting operating and capital expenditures


 
Formalized linkages established between budgeting and planning process


Leading Criteria:
Central planning function empowered to adjust budgets in order to


 
compensate for unplanned events or changing priorities


 
Data is used as predictive tool as much as for reporting purposes


 
Data and scenario planning tools are used in the budget preparation


 
Costs of marketing initiative execution are monitored and managed


 
individually and by channel


 
Iterative planning process, combining and reconciling top-down and bottom 


 
up plans


 
‘Zero-based’ and ‘driver-based’ plans


 
Standardized automated process for continuous monitoring and reporting


 
Central planning assumptions for high level factors and


 
coordination to align overall plan


 
Two-way continuous closed loop between budgeting and planning process


 








 

 
 



TABLE 8


 


Manage Retail Strategy


Manage Investments


Investment Review


 




 




Description:
Investment Review provides continuous reporting, review and


 
assessment of capital expenditures and initiatives in order to monitor


 
investment performance, assess benefits realization and develop lessons


 
learned for use on future programs and initiatives.


Basic Criteria:
No systematic review of individual projects or programs


 
No review of processes or policies for investment review


 
Control information rarely available in time to provide any


 
corrective response to issues


 
Data on individual projects not readily available


 
No consistent framework for measuring and monitoring unit costs


 
No ability to view aggregated investments except in terms of total


 
spend vs. budget


 
Data at too high a level for managers to target problems


 
No mechanism to capture and communicate best practices


 
Investment reviews are only conducted reactively


Threshold Criteria: 
Review of major programs with large identified cost variances


 
Operational data is aggregated up to provide consolidated views,


 
but requires cumbersome manual processes


 
Timely data available for financial and budget metrics only


 
Performance against investment plan is evaluated, but no formal,


 
consistent process for measurement


 
Monitoring reports on individual projects can be obtained, with


 
significant manual effort


 
Investment spending monitored in total, and by major driver


 
Feedback on processes and policies captured ad hoc


 
No formal process for knowledge sharing - communication on


 
major events ad hoc


 
Investment reviews are conducted on an ad hoc basis creating a


 
reactive solution


Above Average
Review of major programs and projects for cost variances by


Criteria
business unit


 
Previous year's activities are reviewed, but no formal mechanism


 
for incorporating changes into next year's business and planning


 
decisions


 
Timely reporting available for financial and operational


 
performance measures for specific initiatives


 
Monitoring of spend vs. plan at key intervals


 
Full variance analysis covering unit costs, timing, key outputs


 
Program spend assessed regularly for variances


 
Regular process to capture and communicate best practices, lessons


 
learned and methods for incorporating knowledge into updated


 
processes


 
Proactive approach and processes in place


Leading Criteria:
Analysis of the effectiveness of all projects and programs in


 
delivering outcomes


 
Systematic review of processes and procedures, root cause analysis


 
and changes incorporated into planning guidelines


 
Performance against investment plans part of a balanced scorecard


 
Ongoing monitoring of actual spend, volumes, timing, outputs vs.


 
business plan and regulatory targets


 
Automated information solutions that enable timely reporting of


 
variances at level of detail appropriate for management and


 
presented in a user friendly format


 
Program and major projects monitored and controlled throughout


 
the year, using tools to assess variances


 
Process for correcting performance


 
IT solutions to support knowledge sharing


 
Proactive approach and processes in place to actively monitor and


 
utilize investment reviews for forecasting


 








 

 
 



TABLE 9


 


Manage Retail Strategy


Manage Regulatory Affairs


Regulatory Strategy Management


 




 




Description:
Regulatory Strategy Management defines the process to develop a


 
strategy for meeting regulatory requirements and business needs and


 
ensuring that all operations are aligned to meet the goals of that strategy.


 
The capability includes defining the requirements of a risks and controls


 
program and communication plan for regulators.


Basic Criteria:
Regulatory strategy is inconsistent with attempts to follow and


 
change the regulators’ agenda


 
No communication plan in place


 
Strategy is driven by a focus on in-depth understanding of the


 
industry rules rather than on commercial appropriateness


 
Management reacts to regulatory requirements or issues only once


 
they break a particular compliance threshold


 
Internal reporting is based on mandatory regulatory requirements


Threshold Criteria:
Regulatory strategy is consistent but focuses on following the


 
regulators' agenda rather than working collaboratively with other


 
industry parties to instigate change


 
Ad hoc communication plan is in place but there is no formal


 
process for updates


 
Ad hoc response processes are in place but are not consistent


 
Regulatory strategy considers commercial appropriateness - the


 
retailer's position in industry/regulatory league tables are taken into


 
account to ensure strategic programs improve ranking


 
Management might react to regulatory requirements too soon


 
which adds far more costs than benefit


 
Internal reporting is based on mandatory regulatory requirements


 
and a need to understand industry needs/performance


Above Average
Regulatory strategy considers that regulations should be considered


Criteria
in context of commercial decisions, i.e. sometimes it is appropriate


 
to challenge/negotiate terms for new mandatory changes


 
Retailer develops an annual communication plan for regulatory


 
management


 
Management proactively seeks to influence regulatory


 
requirements


 
Internal reporting integrates regulatory compliance with


 
commercial/operational performance


 
Standard processes are in place to respond to regulator requests


 
Retailer effectively self-regulates operations and processes and


 
supports an independent dispute resolution body which is


 
established and financed with the principal function of addressing


 
account and billing disputes where the customer has been unable to


 
resolve the dispute with their retailer.


Leading Criteria:
A holistic approach to regulatory strategy that aligns commercial


 
decisions and industry stakeholders is supported by a multi-channel


 
communication plan that is reviewed on an ongoing basis


 
Retailer employs a wide range of techniques to shape the political


 
and regulatory agenda in order to transform the industry and derive


 
commercial advantage - for example the retailer might initiate and


 
chair critical industry initiatives that bring together peers within the


 
industry


 
Internal reporting integrates regulatory performance with


 
commercial/operational performance is proactively


 
managed/responded to


 
Retailer is able to react to new policies - for example, if the


 
regulator states that retailers should not seek payment from


 
customers where the retailer is at fault for not billing the customer


 
for a certain amount of years, the retailer is able to quickly


 
calculate the effect of this and implement the change to billing as


 
required


 








 

 
 



TABLE 10


 


Manage Retail Strategy


Manage Regulatory Affairs


Regulatory Interface Management


 




 




Description:
Regulatory Interface Management includes the management of all


 
communication with external regulatory bodies including negotiations


 
and policy recommendations. This capability supports the Retail


 
utility's ability to be consistently compliant with appropriate regulation.


Basic Criteria:
Response to data requests extremely manual/labor intensive and the


 
need to produce evidence of compliance drives poor/flawed


 
behavior within the organization


 
Difficulty in managing to one version of the data as


 
communications are mostly uncoordinated


 
Regulatory interfaces are average - the retailer is not usually


 
prepared for negotiations with the proper data and supporting


 
documents


 
Manual monitoring of compliance is often flawed and creates


 
inconsistencies


 
Ineffective, reactionary communication with regulator


Threshold Criteria:
Response to data requests are labor intensive but mostly accurate


 
and therefore the high cost is tolerated and there is no inclination to


 
make changes to the system in place


 
Difficulty in managing to one version of the data and therefore


 
coordinated communication is labor intensive


 
Regulatory interfaces are managed to maintain status-quo relations


 
with no clear process for negotiations


 
Monitoring of compliance is labor intensive but usually accurate.


 
There is a lack of a cohesive system to monitor compliance cost


 
effectively


 
Neutral relationship with the regulator via one-way communication


 
(retailer to regulator)


 
Ad hoc execution of communication plan


Above Average
Response to data requests is automated in part, usually requires


Criteria
manual checks before response is sent


 
Data is generally consistent and coordinated communication is


 
managed in line with a high-level document plan


 
Monitoring of compliance is tied to the automated response system


 
resulting in greater accuracy and less FTE's required to oversee the


 
process


 
Regulatory interfaces and negotiations are managed well and are


 
aimed at building trust


 
Good relationship with the regulator via one-way communication


 
(retailer to regulator)


 
Communication plan is executed well, however there is no process


 
in place to measure it effectiveness


Leading Criteria:
Response to data requests is automated and of high-quality


 
Data is collated from a single source and is reliable


 
Monitoring of compliance is fully automated and standardized


 
regular reports are produced by the system


 
Regulatory interfaces and


 
negotiations are proactively managed with a robust business case


 
for investment support


 
Excellent relationship with the regulator via two-way proactive


 
communication approach


 
Comprehensive communications plan outlining all key interfaces


 
and objectives are executed effectively and efficiently


 








 

 
 



TABLE 11


 


Manage Retail Strategy


Manage Customer Strategy


Customer Value and Segmentation


 




 




Description:
Customer Value and Segmentation includes determining the approach


 
and executing customer valuation, profiling and the definition of


 
customer segments for the purposes of differentiated treatment. This


 
capability encompasses all aspects of defining the differentiated


 
customer experience (offerings, communications, pricing, etc) which


 
enables a utility to apply its customer strategy at the individual level.


Basic Criteria:
Customer base not defined in terms of segments or clusters


 
Customer Lifetime Value (CLV) not known


 
Customer value strategy is focused on the acquisition of new


 
customers, rather than acquisition and retention due to lack of


 
understanding of relative values within current customer base


 
Customer offer is defined according to product/service availability


 
rather than customer demand modeling


Threshold Criteria:
Customer segments are loosely defined according to logical attributes


 
Average Customer Lifetime Value (CLV) assessed periodically


 
Strategy is not informed by CLV - for example customer growth


 
targets are focused on the acquisition of new customers, rather than


 
acquisition and retention of high-value customers


 
Simple technology in place for customer profiling provided by an


 
application that is not dedicated to this function and therefore has


 
limited use


 
Profit potential of each segment is not formally evaluated in


 
quantitative terms


 
Customer offers are defined by a balance of product/service


 
availability as well as basic customer segmentation but customer


 
treatments may be similar


 
No standard review of effectiveness of customer value and


 
segmentation approach


Above Average
Target customer base is segmented according to demographic


Criteria
profiles


 
Customer segments are defined according to logical attributes and


 
are sponsored by a segment owner who represents the customers in


 
strategy discussions across the organization


 
Customer Lifetime Value (CLV) assessed periodically for defined


 
customer segments


 
CLV per segment is reported to other areas of the organization


 
periodically but data is often difficult to evaluate and does not


 
consistently impact strategy of other retail functions


 
Sophisticated technology in place for customer profiling but this is not 


 
used on a regular basis


 
Profit potential of each segment and cluster is determined by reviewing 


 
revenue against cost to serve


 
Customer offers are driven by segmentation analysis and some


 
differentiated treatment may be available


 
Ad hoc review of effectiveness of customer value and segmentation 


 
approach


Leading Criteria:
Target customer base segmented according to customers' needs,


 
behaviors and demographic profiles


 
Customer segments and clusters defined according to tangible and


 
logical attributes, sponsored by segment owners and tracked


 
according to movement and behavior


 
Customer Lifetime Value (CLV) is known and maintained for


 
individual customers as well as all defined customer segments and


 
clusters


 
Segment and cluster values are reported to other areas of the


 
organization on a frequent basis to inform strategy for customer


 
acquisition, retention and growth plans, marketing concepts and product 


 
development


 
Sophisticated predictive tools and models used for customer


 
profiling on a regular basis


 
Formal evaluation of ROI per customer segment


 
Customer offers and treatments are defined based on predictive


 
segmentation and unique treatments are available tailored to


 
customer need


 
Regular review of effectiveness of customer value and segmentation 


 
approach


 








 

 
 



TABLE 12


 


Manage Retail Strategy


Manage Customer Strategy


Brand Strategy


 




 




Description:
Brand Strategy includes the definition of the brand promise, the role of 


 
the brand in a retail utility context, brand stretch opportunities and the


 
overall customer value proposition. Brand strategy includes defining


 
how to measure brand value and customer loyalty.


Basic Criteria:
Poorly defined brand promise with no tangible value proposition


 
No proactive research into or consideration for brand stretch


 
opportunities


 
Brand measurement is not defined


 
Brand strategy effectiveness not measured


Threshold Criteria:
Inconsistent brand promise with a qualitative value proposition


 
described in subjective terms


 
Brand stretch opportunities are considered and sometimes


 
implemented but without thorough cost/benefit analysis and


 
therefore is perceived as being ineffective


 
Brand measurement is defined in qualitative rather than


 
quantitative terms


 
Brand strategy effectiveness measured at inconsistent intervals


Above Average
Defined brand promise with a tangible value proposition for the


Criteria
customer


 
Brand is sufficiently strong to attract brand stretch opportunities


 
that are taken up when deemed to bring about tangible benefits -


 
these include extending the brand into new markets


 
Brand measurement is defined in quantitative terms and there are


 
distinctions made between brand value and brand loyalty


 
Brand strategy effectiveness measured regularly and ad hoc action


 
taken to adjust brand strategy


Leading Criteria:
Clearly defined brand promise with tangible value proposition for


 
each market or customer segment - this is frequently reviewed


 
according to customer and market intelligence


 
Brand is sufficiently strong to attract and drive brand stretch


 
opportunities. Benefits are realized in terms of increasing customer


 
loyalty, market share and brand value - even compared with brands


 
in other industries


 
Role of Brand is clearly defined within the organization - in line


 
with the brand promise and strategy supports ‘living the brand’


 
Brand measurement is defined in quantitative terms and


 
benchmarked against other players in the utilities and other


 
consumer industries


 
Brand strategy effectiveness measured regularly and actions taken


 
to adjust brand strategy when appropriate


 








 

 
 



TABLE 13


 


Manage Retail Strategy


Manage Customer Strategy


Market Intelligence


 




 




Description:
Market Intelligence is the ability to acquire detailed information and


 
research into the competitive landscape, regulatory environment and


 
customer base demographics. The timely acquisition and 


 
dissemination of this information to key internal stakeholders and 


 
partners is critical to effective market responsiveness.


Basic Criteria:
No proactive market research or analysis


 
Market research is reactive, typically infrequent and unstructured


 
Limited analysis of demographic data in the public domain - e.g.


 
GDP or population trends


Threshold Criteria:
No proactive market research and analysis


 
Any market research or analysis is reactive and typically developed


 
in silo capability groups (e.g. pricing) with some coordination


 
Simple evaluation of macro economic trends and their impact on


 
country specific markets


 
Analysis of demographic data in the public domain - e.g. GDP,


 
population and demographic trends


Above Average
Structured and regular market analysis activity, but no dedicated


Criteria
resources within the company


 
Market intelligence data is centralized and used primarily in


 
marketing or consumer affairs - it is not leveraged throughout the


 
rest of the company


 
Evaluation of macro economic trends and their impact on a country


 
level on target and current markets


 
Quantitative analysis of acquired demographic data at a


 
geographic, market and regional level resulting in predicted trends


 
General insights gained about the market or major competitive


 
activity


Leading Criteria:
Dedicated Market Intelligence/Research function managing


 
structured and regular market analysis activity


 
Market intelligence is centralized and analysis is integrated across


 
functional teams


 
Market and consumer intelligence is gathered and analyzed using


 
primary research techniques such as customer/prospect surveys


 
Evaluation of macro economic trends and their impact on a global


 
level on target and current markets


 
Qualitative and quantitative analysis of demographic data at a


 
geographic, market and regional level resulting in predicted trends,


 
customer behavior and support for customer insight applications


 
Specific insights gained about individual competitors' movements


 
or actions


 








 

 
 



TABLE 14


 


Manage Retail Strategy


Manage Customer Strategy


Customer Information Strategy


 




 




Description:
Customer Information Strategy includes identifying what information 


 
is to be captured for each customer and how this data is gathered, 


 
stored, protected, used, shared, transferred and disposed of.


Basic Criteria:
Customer data is not integrated into operational effectiveness


 
capabilities, customer insight or planning sessions


 
Required, collected and stored customer information is stored in


 
multiple applications with various access restrictions - data entities


 
are ambiguous (e.g. all free-text fields)


 
Definition of data requirements are not centrally formulated and


 
controlled


 
Customer data is accessible on request, as per regulatory


 
requirements


 
Data collection strategy does not include collection of touch-point


 
and channel integration data


 
Data is not integrated across channels


 
Agent/team hand-offs require some manual data transfer


 
No coordination across different systems and applications


 
No meta-data definitions


 
Strategy for security solution is not updated on a regular basis and


 
presents a recognizable threat to the storage of customer data and


 
high value information flows


Threshold Criteria:
Customer data is treated as a business requirement


 
Required, collected and stored customer information is stored and


 
is available across multiple views - definition of data entities are


 
inconsistent


 
Ownership of data definitions are clearly understood


 
Customer data is accessible to customer via customer service and


 
upon request on an as needed basis for compliance


 
Data collection strategy includes intention to collect touch-point


 
data and channel integration data


 
Data collection strategy includes external data gathering (e.g. credit


 
ratings)


 
Agent/Team hand-offs require some manual transfer


 
Data quality processes are not standardized across all platforms


 
Ad hoc tasks to create/maintain meta-data definitions but task is


 
rarely completed and effectively reviewed/used


 
Strategy for security solution is up-to-date with current technology


 
and provides the minimally required level of protection against


 
data threats


Above Average
Customer data is treated as basic operational tool


Criteria
All required, collected and stored customer information is available


 
to view such that there is an integrated view of customer data and


 
data entities are defined


 
Ownership of data definitions are clearly understood and centrally


 
controlled and updated


 
Customer data is accessible to customer via web and available in


 
writing upon request for compliance purposes


 
Data collection strategy includes collection and validation of touch


 
point data and channel integration data as well as external data


 
gathering such that data is validated/enhanced (e.g. credit ratings


 
and addresses)


 
Integrated data strategy and data hub such that agent/team hand-


 
offs do not require manual data transfer


 
Dedicated data quality assurance team who maintain meta-data is


 
not used by all other areas of the organization


 
Security solution strategy is up-to-date with current technology


 
offerings and required security levels and reviewed annually


Leading Criteria:
Customer data is treated and leveraged as a strategic asset


 
All required, collected and stored customer information is available


 
to view such that there is a single view of a customer - each data


 
entity is clearly defined and validated at point of entry


 
Data definitions are proactively managed to ensure the right data is


 
being collected and is appropriately protected


 
Data collection strategy includes formal collection and validation


 
of touch-point data and channel integration which is fully


 
integrated into CRM systems and forwarded to retail insights


 
Dedicated data quality assurance team who maintain meta-data,


 
and this is used as a reference by all other areas of the organization


 
to enable intelligent analytics


 
Strategy addresses end-to-end standardized risk mitigation


 
processes for managing the security of customer information from


 
collection to disposal


 








 

 
 



TABLE 15


 


Manage Retail Strategy


Manage Product/Service Strategy


Product & Service Development Management


 




 




Description:
Product & Service Development Management covers a retailer's 


 
ability to bring a product to market. Included in this capability is the


 
development of a product itself, i.e. tariff rate structure, various fixed


 
term contracts, sustainable energy offerings, and the delivery of the


 
product via the appropriate channels.


Basic Criteria:
New products/services are investigated and developed in silos on


 
an ad hoc basis


 
Processes for product/service development (concept to pilot) do not


 
include consideration for regulatory requirements so that products


 
are released that are not compliant - e.g. not all products are


 
suitable for vulnerable customers


 
Product or service approval is inefficient leaving other areas of the


 
operation scrambling to accommodate approved products or


 
services at the last minute


 
No capacity for consideration of product/service diversification


 
Products are priced by the associated tariff - there is no formal


 
consideration for discounting or other incentive rules


 
Products rarely contain a corporate social responsibility or


 
sustainability component


 
Products do not promote energy efficiency


Threshold Criteria:
New products/services are investigated and developed


 
systematically, but in silos


 
Product/service development procedures include a regulatory


 
compliance check but compliance is not always enforced


 
Limited capacity for consideration of product/service


 
diversification


 
Products are priced based on a limited set of data and price is only


 
defined in terms of a tariff. Tariff changes are time-consuming and


 
costly and new products frequently require new tariffs


 
Products occasionally contain a corporate social responsibility or


 
sustainability component


Above Average
New products/services are investigated, developed and released


Criteria
according to strategy. Regulatory compliance is ensured at the first


 
stage of development and is a mandatory requirement for


 
development work to start


 
Product development function includes ad hoc searches for


 
product/service diversification opportunities but these are not


 
always carried through to thorough evaluation and therefore seen


 
as a redundant investment


 
Fact-based pricing recommendations and decisions are coordinated


 
between some business units and are primarily driven by


 
competition


 
Products usually contain a corporate social responsibility or


 
sustainability component


Leading Criteria:
Product/services are investigated, developed and released


 
according to strategy and evaluated throughout the development


 
lifecycle through customer analytics


 
Regulatory compliance is ensured at the first stage of development


 
and is a mandatory requirement for development work to start


 
Information on customer values, predicted needs and actual uptake,


 
channel requirements and internal company needs is input for a


 
dedicated product development team


 
Product development is focused on product portfolio optimization


 
and retailer is good at product/service lifecycle management


 
Retailer deploys a center of excellence approach to manage


 
ideation through to commercialization of new products/services


 
across the enterprise


 
Customer centric methodologies (e.g. customer feedback data is


 
fed back into process methodologies)


 
Products align with retailer's stated core values (e.g. always


 
contain a corporate social responsibility or sustainability


 
component)


 
Organization has an integrated, transparent view of


 
products/service lifecycle and plan proactively for product/service


 
introduction


 








 

 
 



TABLE 16


 


Manage Retail Strategy


Manage Product/Service Strategy


Partner Relationship & Alliance Development


 




 




Description:
Partner Relationship & Alliance Development is the ability to leverage


 
current alliances and identify and develop new alliance opportunities 


 
to produce enhanced service offerings.


Basic Criteria:
No process in place to understand the current alliance footprint


 
Prospective partners are not fully investigated and impact of the


 
alliance not fully realized prior to contractual commitment


 
Perceived lack of opportunity to benefit from an alliance due to a


 
somewhat introverted product/service strategy


 
Retailer has limited integration partnerships


 
Rationale and business case for the formation of alliances is not


 
clear


 
Alliance is fundamentally not profitable for one or all parties


 
No periodic review of partnerships is conducted


 
Different parts of organization have entered into agreements with


 
vendor/partner at different points in time


Threshold Criteria: 
Ad hoc understanding of current alliance footprint


 
Alliance opportunities are created as a reaction to offers rather than


 
through proactive search/investigation initiatives


 
Alliance is designed to benefit driving party and therefore biased in


 
terms of realized benefits


 
Specific partner information available for manual exchange


 
Alliances and partnerships are strategic but effort is not sufficient


 
to capitalize on the full value potential


 
Alliance is successful in the short-term only and therefore does not


 
promote growth


 
The customer can recognize differences in services based on


 
differing partnership relationships


 
Ad hoc review of partnerships with no real process to measure


 
realized value


Above Average
Standardized process in place to understand current alliance


Criteria
footprint


 
Alliance opportunities are sought/investigated in response to a


 
sudden change in customer base/value rather than as part of a long


 
term strategy


 
Specific partner information available for exchange


 
Alliance is designed to deliver mutual benefits but benefits are not


 
consistently realized/measured


 
Alliances are viewed and managed as medium-term relationships


 
and serve to increase customer base but not customer value


 
The customer experience is delivered uniformly through


 
partnerships, however customers are aware of outsourced services


 
Partnerships and alliances are regularly appraised


Leading Criteria:
Standardized process in place to understand current alliance


 
footprint and assess partnerships on an ongoing basis


 
Alliance opportunities are proactively sought/investigated as part


 
of a long term strategy to meet customer requirements and promote


 
growth in terms of brand value, customer value and market share


 
Partner integration with data and application interface


 
Alliance is designed to deliver mutual specific value-adding


 
capabilities and skills both of which are tangible and proactively


 
evaluated


 
Alliances are viewed and managed as long-term relationships


 
The customer does not recognize the involvement or different


 
brand of partnerships


 
Partnerships and alliances are regularly appraised and measured


 
against a standard set of performance metrics


 








 

 
 



TABLE 17


 


Manage Retail Strategy


Manage Product/Service Strategy


Tariff & Rate Management


 




 




Description:
Tariff & Rate Management includes the creation and maintenance 


 
of a rate or tariff structure including rate proposals, maintaining rate


 
components, rate or tariff changes, regulatory compliance and


 
evaluation of performance. This capability typically encompasses


 
regulated or ‘default’ rate development and maintenance.


Basic Criteria:
Simple rate/tariff structure is developed and released inconsistently


 
Little/no consideration for demographic of customer base and


 
therefore no segment specific programs, instead generic offerings


 
are discounted/manually manipulated on an ad hoc basis


 
Inconsistent use of modeling and analysis tools


 
Ad hoc benchmarking against competition


 
Rate descriptions on customer bills tend to be compliant with


 
regulatory requirements


 
Changes to rate/tariffs require system outage due to being hard


 
coded into the CIS/billing system


Threshold Criteria:
Simple rate/tariff structure is developed and released periodically,


 
as opposed to being a continuous activity


 
Segment specific programs are poorly delivered, i.e. uptake is low,


 
schemes are not profitable, customers are still dissatisfied/incurring


 
significant debt


 
Rate/tariff designed and maintained using relevant modeling and


 
analysis tools


 
Rate descriptions are compliant with regulatory requirements


 
although this is still a major source of customer complaints


 
Changes require system outages or significant change requests


 
Periodic benchmarking against other competitors and/or markets


Above Average
Simple rate/tariff structure is designed in line with product


Criteria
strategies


 
Segment specific programs are proactively managed and reviewed


 
(i.e. uptake is controlled, impact on customer base and behavior is


 
monitored)


 
Rate/tariff design and maintenance function is integrated with


 
supply/energy trading systems


 
All rate/tariff development and change is designed to account for


 
external factors


 
Rate descriptions and tariff structures compliant with regulatory


 
requirements


 
Simple rate/tariff changes can be done as a system configuration


 
change


 
Regular benchmarking against other competitors and/or markets


Leading Criteria:
Sophisticated rate/tariff structure is designed in line with current


 
pricing and product strategies


 
Rate/tariff structure promotes conservation demand side


 
management


 
Creative special payment programs developed which can be


 
tailored to customer segments and clusters


 
Rate/tariff designed and maintained using relevant modeling and


 
complex analysis tools, which are integrated with supply/energy


 
trading systems


 
Dedicated business function responsible for benchmarking


 
offerings against competition


 
Both simple and complex changes to rate/tariffs are enabled as


 
system configuration changes as opposed to system codes changes


 
requiring system outage


 
Ongoing benchmarking against other competitors and/or markets


 








 

 
 



TABLE 18


 


Manage Retail Strategy


Manage Product/Service Strategy


Energy Efficiency and Demand Side Management


 




 




Description:
Energy Efficiency and Demand Side Management (DSM) covers the


 
development, operation and review of demand side management and


 
energy efficiency programs. The capability includes advanced 


 
metering utilization, energy audits, conservation and “green” 


 
customer care campaigns to promote efficient energy use.


Basic Criteria:
Energy conservation initiatives have inconsistent management


 
backing and are not aligned with customer care strategies


 
Basic energy services offered as required by regulatory body


 
No communication plan for DSM initiatives in place


 
Some ‘Green’ customer incentives exist that are designed for


 
existing products but do not promote a long-term commitment


 
No individual proactive audits available


 
Automated meter reading in place that is not tied to DSM programs


Threshold Criteria: 
Energy conservation initiatives are loosely tied to customer care


 
objectives


 
Energy conservation initiatives have management backing but are


 
inhibited by lack of consistent levels of investment and sponsorship


 
Offerings meet regulatory requirements and are predominantly


 
focused on limited conservation programs (e.g. residential


 
insulation, commercial building management)


 
Communication plan attempts to promote energy conservation to


 
customers within the confines of the available product offerings


 
Targeted energy efficiency information provided through bills and


 
marketing


 
DSM and energy conservation consulting available to some


 
customers - energy audits available on request (not online)


 
Some investment in intelligent grid and advanced metering


 
technology but benefits not fully recognized


Above Average
Energy conservation initiatives supported by a recognized business


Criteria
case and management function based on customer care objectives


 
Significant marketing of energy efficiency as a concept, as well as


 
how efficiencies can be achieved using available product offerings


 
Energy conservation products offered without price or discount


 
incentive to the customer


 
Energy services products offering incentives to customers for


 
driving predictability of demand


 
DSM and energy conservation consulting available to all customers


 
(e.g. energy audits provided via basic web/e-tools), program


 
participation enabled for some customers (e.g. offered for a


 
premium price and therefore excludes low-income homes)


 
Advanced metering used to enable lower service costs, value-added


 
services, alternate power rates for customer retention and lower


 
bills and greater usage transparency for all types of customers


Leading Criteria:
Dedicated strategic energy conservation team and operational


 
business function supported by a tangible business case


 
DSM strategies far exceed regulatory requirements


 
Energy conservation marketing campaigns designed to sell the


 
concept, implement changes in customer behavior and promote


 
appropriate product offerings


 
Energy conservation and ‘Green’ products are offered to customers


 
with a tangible and economical incentive (e.g. may be subsidized


 
or result in significant discounts/credits)


 
DSM and energy conservation consulting available to all customers


 
(e.g. sophisticated web/e-tools available to manage demand and


 
obtain energy audits). Program participation is enabled for all


 
customers at no extra cost


 
Smart Metering used to enable real-time, two-way communication


 
with customers to provide: time of use billing, integration with


 
home devices to adjust usage, incentives for energy curtailment and


 
optimized web services-retailer has complete predictability of


 
peak demand


 








 

 
 



TABLE 19


 


Manage Retail Strategy


Manage Product/Service Strategy


Social Responsibility


 




 




Description:
Social Responsibility includes the development of offerings and


 
communications focused on social responsibility and community


 
support initiatives. The capability aligns community and charitable


 
involvement with retailer's core values, brand strategy and customer


 
values. It sets out the framework to build a socially responsible 


 
retail organization that its employees want to be part of.


Basic Criteria:
Little/no consideration for social responsibility programs


 
No focused communication of social responsibility initiatives


 
No requirement for reporting on successful uptake/impact of


 
programs


 
No support for employees to participate in community programs


 
Limited community investment programs


Threshold Criteria:
Social responsibility programs are poorly delivered i.e. uptake is


 
low


 
Ad hoc communication of programs is provided on an as needed


 
basis


 
Reporting on successful uptake/impact of programs is


 
biased/subjective


 
Community lacks an understanding of what offerings are available


 
and the details of those initiatives


 
Retailer acts as a participant in one to two events per year


 
Employees are give little support to attend and volunteer for


 
community events


 
Some structure in place to administer and manage corporate social


 
responsibility programs


Above Average
Social responsibility programs are proactively managed and


Criteria
reviewed (i.e. uptake is controlled, impact on customer base and


 
behavior is monitored)


 
Communication plan for community and social programs is


 
integrated into wider annual plans


 
Emphasis on program marketing and promotion via all channels


 
Retailer takes part in community initiatives and is seen as a


 
positive influence on the community


 
Employees are encouraged to partake in functions - no work


 
accommodations made


 
Centralized structure in place to administer and manage corporate


 
social responsibility programs


Leading Criteria:
Creative social responsibility programs developed


 
Dedicated multi-channel communication plan is developed for


 
programs on an annual basis


 
High uptake of programs for target customer segment/cluster


 
Retailer creates, leads, sponsors and hosts major community events


 
Community view of retailer is positive and based on frequent


 
community support-retailer good at choosing the right initiate to


 
support (i.e. has good social awareness)


 
Employees are highly encouraged to partake in community


 
initiatives through the People Advocacy function. Employees are


 
provided support for time off and flexible work options


 
Centralized structure in place to administer and manage corporate


 
social responsibility programs to brand and strategy


 








 

 
 



TABLE 20


 


Manage Retail Strategy


Manage Product/Service Strategy


T&D Integration


 




 




Description:
T&D Integration covers the strategy for communicating, interacting,


 
and transferring knowledge with Transmission and Distribution entities.


 
The communication plan includes supply point updates, field


 
management, meter management and emergency procedures.


Basic Criteria:
Standardized communication format is agreed for some


 
communications, as per industry-wide standard (e.g. electronic data


 
exchange format, but messages which are not within


 
specification/not supported in industry-wide format cause


 
significant manual process)


 
Service level agreements adhered to for most emergency work


 
requests/reports


 
Emergency procedures are clearly defined and documented but


 
areas of accountability can be inconsistent, utility has breaches of


 
contract on record


 
Standard manual administration plan and process in place to


 
administer charge, payments, pricing and tariffs


 
Metering and inventory management processes are standardized


Threshold Criteria:
Standardized communication format is agreed for all


 
communications, as per industry-wide standard (e.g. electronic data


 
exchange format but messages which are not within specification


 
cause some manual exception processing)


 
Emergency procedures are clearly defined and documented with


 
areas of accountability established, no emergency calls are handled


 
outside of an SLA and the utility has no breaches of contract


 
Metering and inventory management processes are run through a


 
separate electronic data exchange


Above Average
Standardized communication format is agreed for all


Criteria
communications, as per industry-wide standard (e.g. electronic data


 
exchange format, and all messages are validated according to


 
clearly defined industry-wide criteria)


 
Quality assurance checkpoint implemented for every interface with


 
other entities


 
Standardized administration plan and process in place which is


 
administered through a two-way electronic data exchange that


 
provides reporting capabilities


 
Metering and inventory management processes are integrated into


 
the electronic data exchange


Leading Criteria:
Real-time communication format through smart or advanced


 
metering system and a web services function for customers, as per


 
industry-wide standards


 
Continuous quality assurance for every interface with other entities


 
via real-time data flows and proactive maintenance schedules


 
Operating or service level agreements adhered to for most


 
emergency work requests/reports through optimized


 
communication channels and predictive measures


 
Emergency procedures are clearly defined and service orders and


 
dispatches are optimized in real time. Emergency calls are handled


 
within agreed SLA


 
Set-up and response calls for appointments are automated and


 
reported on in real time


 
Standardized administration plan and process in place which is


 
administered through a two-way, real-time system with automated


 
reporting capabilities


 
Metering and inventory management is completely held up-to-date


 
with what is in the field versus operational records via the smart or


 
advanced metering system and network


 





The following Tables 21-30 provide an explanation of the capabilities and corresponding key assessment areas and performance capability criteria for each capability within the manage interaction platform 104.



 

 
 



TABLE 21


 


Manage Interaction


Channel Management


 




 




Description:
Channel Management covers the management and integration of all


 
channels in which customers contact the utility. It ensures channel


 
efficiency and effectiveness by ensuring that there are various and


 
correctly oriented methods in place for the customer to contact the


 
utility.


Basic Criteria:
Predominant customer channels include walk-in, field sales, field


 
service, paper mail and fax.


 
No channel integration, channels keep multiple records of customer


 
data - heavily administration


 
Service offerings are focused on single channels


 
No definitions exist to specify which services are available through


 
which channels


 
Most or all customer interactions occur within a single channel


 
(e.g., direct mail, call center, internet, branch, etc.)


 
Key assumption is that all required transactions can be completed


 
in one channel per customer


 
No channel demand management discipline in place


 
Staffing forecasts are based primarily on historical interaction


 
volumes


 
Standard channel technologies (e.g. telephone, e-mail, fax, and


 
correspondence routing/queuing capabilities)


 
Routing of customers can only take place within a single channel


Threshold Criteria: 
Predominant customer contact is via the telephone/agent with


 
measurable channel shift towards IVR/WEB.


 
Customer experience is inconsistent across all channels - access


 
similar customer information


 
Channel definitions exist which specify which service will be


 
distributed over which channels


 
All customers are encouraged equally to utilize all available


 
channels without consideration of customer segmentation - limited


 
channel integration


 
Customer agents are trained and proficient for their specific


 
channel, but are not proficient with other channels


 
Business processes for existing channels are imposed on new


 
channels w/ some modification


 
Introduction of new channels is done reactively without evaluating


 
applicability to industry, brand, and customer segments


 
Channel costs are measured


 
Systems are not designed to support seamless routing of customers


 
between channels - routing is based on static business/decision


 
logic


 
CTI technology enables some calls to be routed to an agent off-site


 
(e.g. home working) but the customer experience is inconsistent


 
and the agent is unable to complete all transactions from home. It


 
is likely that home workers are given very specific calls to handle


 
such as credit queries and complaints where their home


 
environment is better suited to the call


Above Average
Increasing automation within the IVR/WEB channels with the IVR


Criteria
and agent still the predominate choice.


 
Full channel integration enables a consistent customer experience


 
across channels - all channels access the same record of customer


 
information


 
Ability to track, monitor and report on forecasted vs. actual


 
interaction volumes


 
Customer agents are trained and proficient at supporting customers


 
on multiple channels


 
Individual business processes are designed to ensure effective


 
execution of each channel


 
Proactive introduction of new channels based on industry trending


 
Staffing forecasts match agent type with anticipated demand from


 
corresponding customer types


 
Channel costs are well defined and optimal operating levels are


 
understood


 
Dynamic routing business/decision logic is user maintainable and


 
takes into account customer and agent information and availability


 
of resources


 
All channels access the same record of customer information. The


 
web service, call center, and third party all have access to a central


 
data hub that is updated and accessed online


 
CTI technology enables some calls to be routed to an agent off-site


 
(e.g. home working) and returned to a call center and customer


 
experience is consistent across on and off-site locations


 
Traditional reader boards and/or closed circuit TV broadcasts are


 
used to communicate alerts (e.g. news of outages, news headlines,


 
TSL, etc.) to customer-facing agents. Some level of investigation


 
and utilization of integrated desktop applications to provide


 
“ticker” information for notifications


Leading Criteria:
Increasing utilization of automated channels by the customer (e.g.,


 
40%+) due to well-defined integrated channel strategies, customer


 
segmentation, channel analytics, and customer adoption practices.


 
Channel integration enables a consistent customer experience


 
across all channels and can be tailored for each customer


 
segment/preferences for all channels


 
Extensive cross-channel integration - all channels access the same


 
record of customer information


 
Ability to conference and transfer contacts to remote


 
telecommuting agents - still offering a consistent customer


 
experience


 
Customers are encouraged to utilize appropriate channels based on


 
customer segmentation (value, preferences, etc.)


 
Network-based onscreen agent prompting used for alerts, e.g. news


 
of outages or news headlines


 
Customer interactions are consistent and properly aligned across


 
multiple channels


 
Company proactively assesses and adds new customer channels


 
(e.g. “chat”)


 
An integrated multi channel strategy is established offering


 
multiple delivery channels with seamless routing


 
All channels access the same record of customer information i.e.


 
the web service, call center, m-Commerce devices (Palm Pilots,


 
cell phones, WAP), and third party all have access to a central data


 
hub that is updated and accessed online. Operations achieving true


 
Single View of the Customer


 
CTI technology enables agents to work from home and offers a


 
consistent customer experience, work via a secure network, and


 
immediate data updates in the central hub with the appropriate


 
levels of security.


 
Enhanced communication and notifications via integrated desktop


 
applications via “ticker” information or integration with CTI


 
information window. Early investigation and utilization of Instant


 
Messaging solutions amongst supervisors and deployed to select


 
agent groups


 








 

 
 



TABLE 22


 


Manage Interaction


Channel Management


Web


 




 




Description:
Channel Management covers the management and 


 
integration of all channels in which customers 


 
contact the utility. It ensures channel efficiency and 


 
effectiveness by ensuring that there are various and


 
correctly oriented methods in place for the customer 


 
to contact the utility.


Basic Criteria:
Website is rarely updated and no minor improvement 


 
assessment has been conducted post launch


 
Basic web functionality (simple menu structures 


 
with informational, account specific, and simple 


 
functionality such as balance enquiries, obtaining 


 
information on payment methods or obtaining credit 


 
agreement details)


 
Website is not robust and rarely used by customers 


 
such that it does not serve as a high-value channel


 
No metrics identified to drive value] from the site or 


 
to gain customer insight


Threshold Criteria:
Website is given minor updates on an infrequent 


 
basis. Customer opinion has not been taken into 


 
consideration when building the site


 
Web functionality includes transactions that are 


 
often requested by customers and do not require 


 
personal interaction (for example, changes to 


 
payment method, name changes and address 


 
changes) - however, these transactions are problematic 


 
if not executed correctly/with the right data and 


 
therefore the website often cannot process the 


 
transaction successfully


 
Basic self-service options are entirely automated and 


 
require no Agent/Back-office intervention. Some 


 
advanced functions such as payment arrangements 


 
and turn on/off are offered but not automated on the 


 
back-end. Basic FAQ deployment and can be


 
difficult to utilize


 
Updated data resulting from web transaction is not 


 
passed to data base immediately


 
Most customer initiated web transactions require 


 
manual processing on the backend due to lack of 


 
backend system integration


 
Website does not serve as a high-value channel, it is 


 
costly to provide, maintain and support


 
Metrics are identified but are rarely tracked


Above Average
Website is on a regular update schedule with major 


Criteria
revisions on an annual basis. Customer input is used 


 
for the design, updates and revisions


 
Web functionality includes transactions which are 


 
best suited to the web (e.g. balance enquiries, meter 


 
read submission and statement requests). While the 


 
scope of transactions is somewhat limited, they are 


 
unlikely to be problematic (i.e. they can be simply 


 
and effectively validated, they can be easily reversed 


 
out of the data base with little/no impact on the 


 
customer account)


 
Web personalization with natural language engine


 
Customer enabled web customization


 
Integration to non-billing legacy applications and 


 
knowledge management


 
FAQ and natural language query capabilities


 
Updates to customer data replicated to central hub 


 
in real time


 
Direct web marketing is enabled according to 


 
customer segment, current campaign and customer 


 
value


 
Website does serve as a good-value channel as it is 


 
relatively inexpensive to provide, maintain and 


 
support but it does not significantly reduce the 


 
workload for front and back office agents


 
Some metrics are identified and tracked to drive 


 
value from the site


Leading Criteria:
Website design includes graphic user interfaces and 


 
regular additions and updates. Customer input and 


 
mass collaboration techniques are used for website 


 
updates


 
Web-based portal provides a coherent set of 


 
account management transactions which involve 


 
complex logic in terms of data validation and 


 
proactive cross-sell attempts. Customers are given 


 
a holistic view of their account and opportunities for 


 
product holding expansion


 
Interactions tailored to individual customer 


 
intelligence & characteristics


 
Interaction with customer insight by behavior 


 
information, value based intelligence, customer 


 
segment


 
Cross-sell & up-sell products (e.g., payment plans, 


 
EE/DR, etc.)


 
3rd party integration such as high-bill analyzers, 


 
etc.


 
Web interaction is used to obtain customer insight 


 
and to tailor the customer experience accordingly, 


 
e.g. customers are not asked the same question more 


 
than once, touch point data is stored and re-used, a 


 
‘call me’ and/or chat facility is available


 
Website is core component of channel strategy


 
Specific set of metrics identified and tracked for 


 
continuous improvement and customer insight


 








 

 
 



TABLE 23


 


Manage Interaction


Channel Management


Email


 




 




Description:
Channel Management covers the management and 


 
integration of all channels in which customers 


 
contact the utility. It ensures channel efficiency and 


 
effectiveness by ensuring that there are various and


 
correctly oriented methods in place for the customer 


 
to contact the utility.


Basic Criteria:
All inbound emails are processed manually with no 


 
auto response acknowledgement of receipt


 
Outbound emails can be generated manually and on 


 
an individual basis only - no capability for mass-


 
communication by email - emails are not personalized


 
Customers cannot choose to receive communications 


 
via email


Threshold Criteria: 
All inbound emails are processed manually


 
Outbound emails can be generated for mass-


 
communication but customers cannot choose to 


 
receive communication via email 


 
Email are not generally personalized and if they are, 


 
the personalization is based on standard data only 


 
such as demographics


 
Some early planning to implement Email Response 


 
Management System (ERMS) with consideration of 


 
existing CTI systems


 
Outbound emails can be generated for mass-


 
communication but customers cannot choose to 


 
receive communication via email


 
Simple, text-only functionality


 
No self-managed subscription functionality


 
Frequently asked questions have standard templated 


 
responses which are manually copied and pasted 


 
back to customer inquires


Above Average
All inbound emails are routed automatically and 


Criteria
processed manually - auto response added with very 


 
basic functionality


 
Outbound emails can be generated for mass-


 
communication and customers can choose to receive 


 
communication via email, however this is not always 


 
applied to outbound campaigns


 
Email Response Management System (ERMS) 


 
utilized to provide automated email management, 


 
provide auto acknowledgements, automated 


 
suggestions, and robust web forms. Email requests


 
blended into the agent wok queue with robust 


 
metrics and measures


 
Early planning and investigation of Web Telephony 


 
Integration (WTI) including key functionality: click 


 
to chat, click to call, click to callback, and web 


 
collaboration.


 
Personalization is limited to differing customer 


 
segments and reinforcement with linkages to 


 
customer data is not fully utilized


 
Simple functionality but includes text and graphics


 
Self-managed subscription and referral functionality


 
Limited tracking or reporting available


Leading Criteria:
Inbound emails are routed and allocated to individual 


 
agents automatically and according to required 


 
customer experience, e.g.customer is sent an auto-


 
response to confirm their message has been received 


 
and to advise when the response should be expected


 
Once a customer email has been routed to an agent,


 
their emails will always be routed to the same agent, 


 
pending availability


 
Outbound emails can be generated for mass-


 
communication and customers can choose to receive 


 
communication via email


 
ERMS integration to Billing systems and ancillary 


 
applications to pre-automate certain transactions and 


 
quality of customer data via forms. Utilize screen 


 
pop integration with CTI to bring up Billing 


 
main account screen, and supporting knowledge


 
Limited trails and pilots of basic WTI capabilities to 


 
measure customer utilization and acceptance


 
Personalization is extensive and based on both 


 
customer data and segmentation characteristics


 
Complex functionality including link backs to 


 
websites, Java, and two-way transactional 


 
functionality


 
Self-managed subscription and referral 


 
functionality


 
Tracking abilities allows for campaign 


 
effectiveness tracking


 








 

 
 



TABLE 24


 


Manage Interaction


Channel Management


Voice/SMS


 




 




Description:
Channel Management covers the management and 


 
integration of all channels in which customers 


 
contact the utility. It ensures channel efficiency and 


 
effectiveness by ensuring that there are various and 


 
correctly oriented methods in place for the customer 


 
to contact the utility.


Basic Criteria:
No dedicated telephone number for customer 


 
service - available for limited time frames which does 


 
not match customer demands


 
Basic local number access and some 800 services


 
Local number provided for emergency calls


 
No dedicated SMS capability


 
Touch-Tone/Dual Tone Multi Frequency (DTMF) 


 
Integrated Voice Response (IVR) solution provides 


 
basic prompting/navigation, menus and for the most 


 
part serves as an auto attendant


 
Simplistic use of Automatic Call Distributor (ACD) 


 
functionality (routing logic), basic queuing, etc.


 
Computer Telephony Integration (CTI) solution is 


 
not in place to link customer calls to customer data


 
Staff levels do not support call volumes


 
Unstable system as overload can occur during high 


 
call volume periods


 
Staff trained to handle general inquires-complex 


 
call types require call backs


 
Outbound calls are assigned to reps using printed 


 
lists on an ad-hoc basis. Calls are dialed manually.


Threshold Criteria:
Dedicated telephone number for customer service


 
Migration to 800 services with enhanced 800 


 
features (e.g., routing plans), utilization of 


 
Automatic Number Identification (ANI)/Caller ID, 


 
take-back & transfer, etc.


 
One way communication available for SMS for 


 
retailer to communicate emergency services and 


 
marketing messages


 
Basic utilization of CTI functionality (e.g. screen 


 
pops, desktop soft phone, etc.).


 
Enhanced ACD utilization including inter-queue, 


 
call type routing, configuration supports enhanced 


 
reporting, and additional groups are enabled (e.g., 


 
Billing Reps, Credit & Collection reps, etc.)


 
Touch-Tone IVR utilization with complete 


 
automation of key transactions (e.g., account 


 
inquiry, duplicate bill, pay arrangement, etc.)


 
Staffing levels are aligned with call volumes


 
System integrity - system rarely experiences issues


 
Staff trained to handle a variety of call types- 


 
most customer inquiries handled without follow up 


 
required


 
Outbound calls are assigned to agents and generated 


 
using a outbound dialer solution. Outbound 


 
campaigns also utilized for service, outage, and 


 
credit notifications


Above Average
Advanced ACD utilization including Voice Over IP 


Criteria
(VoIP) transport, targeted announcements and 


 
prompts, skills based routing, reporting 


 
accountability between ACD and IVR/VRU, and


 
customer messages are queued and managed as an 


 
inbound call


 
Two-way communication available for SMS to 


 
communicate emergency services, marketing 


 
messages and payment programs


 
Implementation of advanced CTI functionality 


 
including initial shifting of some routing logic to 


 
CTI routing tables for both pre & post-routes, 


 
enhanced CTI reporting with visibility to interaction


 
across Voice Network, ACD, IVR, and soft phone 


 
integration within CIS/CRM application


 
Utilization of Discrete Speech/Directed Speech 


 
Recognition. Directed speech using simple - “Say 1”, 


 
“Yes/No/Billing” with default Touch-Tone available 


 
upon unsuccessful attempts and customer preference. 


 
Initial testing and migration planning to basic free 


 
speech with natural language query


 
Continued utilization of predictive dialing solutions 


 
for more than just agent connection with early 


 
migration towards CTI enabled dialing


 
Utilization of Virtual Hold technology as separate 


 
application or integrated within CTI solution


Leading Criteria:
Utilization of voice network-based prompting and 


 
load leveling, interface to carrier ICP functionality, 


 
and VoIP


 
Two-way communication available for SMS for 


 
customer inquiries, emergency services, marketing 


 
messages and payment programs


 
ACD routing functionality shifted to CTI 


 
middleware with default routing (contingency), 


 
and announcements/prompting remaining


 
Full deployment of advanced CTI capabilities such 


 
as screen popping multiple windows (e.g., High-


 
Bill, Budget Bill, etc.), customer profile/skills based 


 
routing, utilization where appropriate of intelligent 


 
network routing (carrier integration), and delivery of


 
differentiated treatments with integration of key 


 
customer segmentation analytics


 
Full implementation of IVR free/conversational 


 
speech with natural language query and evolution 


 
towards insight driven interactions


 
Utilization of CTI solution for “soft” predictive 


 
dialing capabilities with seamless inbound/


 
outbound blending


 
Offer call-back function on website and respond 


 
within promised time frame on requests


 
Virtual hold technology providing more than just 


 
customer satisfaction lift but actually changing 


 
the weekly call arrival patterns by pushing 


 
Monday/Tuesday volumes to mid-week


 








 

 
 



TABLE 25


 


Manage Interaction


Channel Management


Local Retail Outlet


 




 




Description:
Channel Management covers the management and 


 
integration of all channels in which customers 


 
contact the utility. It ensures channel efficiency 


 
and effectiveness by ensuring that there are various 


 
and correctly oriented methods in place for the 


 
customer to contact the utility.


Basic Criteria:
A local retail outlet/office is offered in major centers 


 
as it is a mandatory requirement by the regulator but 


 
is used by very few customers as a primary channel


 
Local retail outlet has minimum capabilities on offer 


 
due to a lack of skilled staff and facilities - no ability 


 
to make a payment


 
Local retail outlet makes little to no investment in 


 
the Customer Experience


 
A receptionist to direct customers to a telephone 


 
that directs customers to a call centre or somewhere 


 
else to get their questions answered - informational 


 
pamphlets available


 
Local retail outlet/office is a relatively ineffective 


 
channel due to limited opening hours, lack of skilled 


 
resources and high operating costs


 
Local retail outlet does not have the ability to handle 


 
other customer service transactions in off-peak times


Threshold Criteria:
Retail outlet remains but is no longer a commonly-


 
used customer channel and is costly to keep in 


 
operation


 
Retail outlets are not located at convenient locations 


 
for customers


 
Retail outlet has limited capabilities on offer due to 


 
a lack of skilled customer service staff


 
Able to handle basic inquiries (e.g. basic billing 


 
questions)


 
receptionist directs customers to specialized teams 


 
via telephone (e.g. conservation)


 
Customers are restricted by payment methods, e.g. 


 
no cash can be taken or other services, e.g. 


 
notification of home move can be recorded but not 


 
replicated in customer database


 
Limited opening hours and counter staffed by 


 
office workers who are often unavailable


Above Average
Retail outlet is a popular customer channel for those 


Criteria
in the locality, e.g. elderly customers who appreciate 


 
a face-to-face service, low-income customers who 


 
prefer not to use the telephone


 
Retail outlet is located in convenient locations


 
Limited payment channels available (e.g. credit 


 
card and cheque, no debit)


 
Most, if not all, customer service capabilities on 


 
offer although the customer experience is not 


 
consistent with other channels


 
Conservation materials available in office but no 


 
local knowledgeable staff


 
Ability to answer most customer care questions


 
Trained customer service staff available on-site to 


 
answer questions


 
Customer experience is consistent with other 


 
channels, e.g. branding, marketing messages, etc.


 
Local retail outlet becomes an extension of the 


 
customer service center via VoIP and thin client 


 
technologies. Agents can handle back-office 


 
transactions to increase utilization during off-peak 


 
times


Leading Criteria:
Retail outlet is a strategic channel and provides a 


 
high-value solution for customer contact


 
Retailer support hotline for second level of support


 
Retail outlet is located in complementary business 


 
locations such as an appliance store to provide 


 
bundled products and energy efficient product 


 
options


 
Retail outlet capabilities are in line with back 


 
office and therefore there is a seamless integration 


 
to the customer


 
Retail outlet is open outside of office hours 


 
customized to meet customer needs


 
Customer experience is consistent with other 


 
channels


 
Customer has the ability to make a secure payment


 
All trained employees are customer care oriented


 
A staffed Conservation Centre at each office staffed 


 
with knowledgeable resources


 
Customer experience is consistent with other 


 
channels and enhanced by community support such 


 
as charity support, tailored customer service for high 


 
value customers


 
Self-Service kiosks across service territory to accept 


 
payments, bill inquires, setup payment arrangements 


 
and service requests


 








 

 
 



TABLE 26


 


Manage Interaction


Channel Management


Pre-Payment Device


 




 




Description:
Channel Management covers the management and


 
integration of all channels in which customers 


 
contact the utility. It ensures channel efficiency 


 
and effectiveness by ensuring that there are 


 
various and correctly oriented methods in place 


 
for the customer to contact the utility.


Basic Criteria:
Pre-payment is an inappropriate method of 


 
customer interaction for certain segments, it 


 
negatively impacts customer perception of the


 
retailer and overall customer experience


 
Pre-payment tokens can only be purchased at a 


 
local office


 
Token or coin removal is manually conducted by 


 
field services


 
No emergency tokens are provided for customers 


 
should a customer not re-credit their meter


 
No remote reconnect/disconnect capabilities in 


 
place other than through the pre-payment function


 
Improved data storage capabilities have not been 


 
implemented to support channel


 
No security solution in place to prevent meter 


 
tampering or to detect fraudulent tokens


Threshold Criteria:
Pre-payment is an inappropriate method because 


 
it provides the service at a very high cost


 
Pre-payment data sticks and swipe cards can be 


 
re-credited through self service channels


 
Pre-payment data sticks and swipe cards can be 


 
re-credited at local offices and via customer 


 
service agents


 
Emergency tokens or swipe cards can be 


 
purchased by the customer


 
Reconnect and disconnect via a remote controlled 


 
relay


 
Data system in place to handle increased data 


 
flows. However, system is not aligned 


 
effectively to the other customer information 


 
platforms and channels


 
Simple detection capabilities for fraudulent data 


 
sticks and swipe cards is not always effective at 


 
preventing meter tampering


Above Average
Pre-payment is an appropriate choice, as it 


Criteria
increases the retailer's exposure to certain 


 
customer segments. Pre-payment system is 


 
deployed at the appropriate sites and is managed at 


 
a low cost


 
Somewhat effective in reducing credit risk


 
Smart cards are available and contain customer 


 
credit and emergency credit. Smart cards can be 


 
credited via multiple channels including financial 


 
institutions


 
Robust data system in place to handle influx of 


 
incoming customer data that is aligned with other 


 
customer information systems


 
Smart cards have built in standard encryption 


 
capabilities to prevent basic theft attempts


Leading Criteria:
Pre-payment is an appropriate choice, as it 


 
increases the retailer's exposure to certain 


 
customer segments. Pre-payment system is 


 
deployed at the appropriate sites, managed at a 


 
low cost and is aligned with other service 


 
channels as well as the brand strategy


 
Effectively reduces credit risk for targeted 


 
customer segments


 
Two-way communication with real-time access to 


 
the meter. Customers can credit their meter online 


 
via an E-payment system which is automatically 


 
sent to the meter. SMS channel also available for 


 
customers to credit accounts


 
Software controlled real-time disconnection to 


 
remotely turn power on or off to a customer


 
Pre-payment device is integrated into a smart 


 
metering home device


 
Custom data solution in place to handle incoming 


 
customer data that is fully integrated with 


 
customer information systems and channel 


 
management systems


 
Advanced multi-layered encryption system in 


 
place to prevent meter tampering and smart card 


 
forgery that is updated frequently which prevents 


 
most fraudulent activities


 








 

 
 



TABLE 27


 


Manage Interaction


Channel Management


Mail/Fax


 




 




Description:
Channel Management covers the management and 


 
integration of all channels in which customers 


 
contact the utility. It ensures channel efficiency and 


 
effectiveness by ensuring that there are various and


 
correctly oriented methods in place for the 


 
customer to contact the utility.


Basic Criteria:
Mail the only available channel for customer 


 
correspondence as customer email addresses are not 


 
stored and therefore the email channel is not available


 
Mass mailings of newsletters, coupons, promotions 


 
are conducted


 
Customer address data quality is poor (i.e. there are 


 
no address quality checks before printing and 


 
sending) and therefore outbound correspondence 


 
generates significant volumes of returned mail which 


 
is costly to process


 
Fax used for one way communication from retailer 


 
to deliver basic marketing messages


 
Customer experience is not delivered consistently 


 
across all correspondence


 
Some templates exist for standard letters but the set 


 
is not exhaustive and so some letters are created 


 
by individuals duplicating work and not going 


 
through the appropriate level of quality checks


Threshold Criteria:
Mail is the main channel for customer 


 
correspondence as some customer email addresses 


 
are stored but these are of poor quality and 


 
therefore email channel is not available except 


 
on an exception basis


 
Targeted mass mailings based on customer sign-


 
ups cause increasing skepticism about direct 


 
marketing by post making mail/fax an unpopular 


 
channel


 
Fax used for one way communication from 


 
retailer to deliver marketing messages and 


 
information on conservation and energy


 
efficiency programs


 
Customer address data quality is good (basic address 


 
quality check before printing and sending) and 


 
therefore outbound correspondence generates 


 
manageable volume of returned mail that


 
is costly to process due to ad hoc system in place


 
The use of letter templates attempts to deliver a 


 
consistent customer experience across all 


 
correspondence but this is not generally 


 
consistent with other channels


Above Average
Mail is still the main and most popular channel for 


Criteria
billing as most customer email addresses are stored 


 
when available but due to the fact that many 


 
customers do not provide an email address or


 
require email correspondence, email channel is 


 
not yet cost-effective


 
Targeted and selective mailings are conducted for 


 
newsletters, coupons, and promotions and are 


 
well received by customers


 
Fax used for two-way communication between 


 
retailers and customers for inquiries, marketing 


 
messages, bill processing, and special programs


 
Customer address data quality is very good 


 
(advanced address quality check before printing 


 
and sending using an external address


 
management system) and therefore outbound 


 
correspondence generates only a low volume of 


 
returned mail that is mostly processed on an 


 
exception basis


 
The use of dynamic letter templates and bill 


 
inserts delivers a consistent customer experience 


 
across all correspondence and this is generally


 
consistent with other channels


Leading Criteria:
Mail is no longer a major customer channel for 


 
billing as customer email addresses are stored 


 
when customer requests email correspondence 


 
and electronic correspondence is consistent with


 
the paper versions. Email channel is cost-


 
effective


 
Customers have the ability to print their own 


 
copies of bills


 
Auto-mailing for targeted and selective 


 
newsletters, coupons, and special promotions 


 
that are specifically tailored to individual


 
customer segments. Includes customized bill 


 
messaging for individual segments


 
Fax used for inbound/outbound communication 


 
between retailers and customers for inquiries, 


 
targeted and segmented marketing messages, bill 


 
processing and target special program promotion


 
Customer address data quality is excellent 


 
(advanced address quality check and auto-


 
corrections before printing and sending using an 


 
external address management system) and 


 
therefore outbound correspondence generates a 


 
low volume of returned mail that is processed 


 
efficiently


 
The use of dynamic letter templates and bill 


 
inserts delivers a consistent customer experience 


 
across all correspondence and this is consistent


 
with other channels


 








 

 
 



TABLE 28


 


Manage Interaction


Channel Management


Account Manager


 




 




Description:
Channel Management covers the management and 


 
integration of all channels in which customers contact 


 
the utility. It ensures channel efficiency and 


 
effectiveness by ensuring that there are various and 


 
correctly oriented methods in place for the customer 


 
to contact the utility.


Basic Criteria:
Industrial, commercial and government customers 


 
are not provided tailored and customized support 


 
services as there is no dedicated account management 


 
team is in place


 
Account managers have a limited scope of control 


 
and customers are asked to call head office if 


 
account managers are unable to complete transactions


 
Account managers only provide basic support for 


 
billing inquiries


 
Account managers are not focused on building 


 
customer relationships due to a lack of incentives, 


 
training and support systems


 
Account managers are unable to effectively cross-sell 


 
or settle disputes due to lack of a single customer view


 
Account manager techniques are not aligned to the 


 
corporate plan and often result in a wide array of 


 
customer experiences


 
Quarterly sales metrics drive account manager 


 
activities and compensation


 
Account touch points are not adequately tracked


Threshold Criteria:
Industrial, commercial and government customers 


 
are provided tailored services that are not necessarily 


 
aligned to customer expectations for services and 


 
products through the deployment of an account 


 
management team that is not integrated


 
Account managers are not able to carry out 


 
transactions while with customers. Transaction are 


 
completed in their place of work (this might be 


 
their home or a central office)


 
Account managers offer tailored billing inquires and 


 
limited support for power efficiency and 


 
improvement programs


 
Account managers are focused on building customer 


 
relationships but the customer experience is often 


 
clouded by aggressive and overly keen sales tactics


 
Account managers have accurate view of customer 


 
product holding and therefore can respond to cross-


 
sell opportunities but are not informed of other 


 
activities such as disputes and after-sales services


 
Annually based metrics are used to drive account 


 
planning activities and compensation


 
Account touch points are completed and tracked 


 
centrally


Above Average
Industrial, commercial and government customers are 


Criteria
provided tailored services that is aligned to customer 


 
expectations for services and products by a dedicated 


 
and fully trained team of account managers


 
Account managers are able to carry out some 


 
transactions using hand-held devices but this are 


 
costly to maintain and many account managers do 


 
not use them effectively


 
Account managers offer tailored billing inquires and 


 
full support for power efficiency and improvement 


 
programs


 
Account managers are focused on building customer 


 
relationships in line with desired customer 


 
experience and are able to offer customers a direct 


 
dial number


 
Account managers have accurate view of customer 


 
product holdings and are empowered to offer 


 
tangible incentives to customers in order to cross-sell 


 
or up-sell


 
Account managers work collaboratively with other 


 
customer-facing teams to obtain a holistic view of the 


 
customer and their contact history with the retailer


 
Annually based metrics that are aligned to corporate 


 
plans are used to drive account planning activities 


 
and compensation


Leading Criteria:
Industrial, commercial and government customers 


 
are offered varying degrees of service and contact 


 
frequency/format is tailored for them by a dedicated 


 
account team who is available 24 hours a day, 7 days 


 
a week


 
Account managers are able to carry out most 


 
transactions using hand-held devices while with 


 
customers face to face. This is supported by an 


 
online portal that is accessed by both the customer


 
and account manager


 
Account managers have the ability to offer fully 


 
customized support for individual customers. Account 


 
managers are well equipped to recommend customer 


 
power efficiency programs


 
Account managers build strong customer 


 
relationships and therefore customer churn is 


 
exceptionally low


 
Account managers offer customers free training 


 
for self-service channels


 
Account managers are integrated with sales 


 
forecasting, sales and marketing teams such that 


 
they not only offer a customer contact channel but 


 
they also effectively support the pipeline of leads/


 
opportunities


 
Customer lifetime value drives account manager 


 
activities and compensation plans


 
Touch points are tracked centrally and data 


 
collected is used to gain further insight into 


 
customer behavior


 








 

 
 



TABLE 29


 


Manage Interaction


Channel Management - Email


Field Sales


 




 




Description:
Channel Management covers the management and 


 
integration of all channels in which customers 


 
contact the utility. It ensures channel efficiency and 


 
effectiveness by ensuring that there are various and


 
correctly oriented methods in place for the customer 


 
to contact the utility.


Basic Criteria:
Field Sales agents are seen as being ‘pushy’ and 


 
intrusive and therefore negatively impact the 


 
customer experience


 
Field sales agents work with paper forms and 


 
therefore have no online access to customer/


 
prospect records


 
High turnover of agents who are motivated by short-


 
term targets based on the number of contracts signed 


 
and therefore increasing instances of void contracts


 
Channel is effective in terms of reaching prospects 


 
than would not otherwise have been found/


 
contacted, low-cost due to cheap labor and hours/


 
location of work


 
Field sales agents collect basic account sign-up 


 
but do not collect data to be fed back into market/


 
customer analysis, campaign management or after-


 
sales support


Threshold Criteria:
Field sales agents are motivated by individual and 


 
uninterrupted targets and are not encouraged to work 


 
collaboratively with other teams.


 
Fields sales agents experience channel is subject to 


 
high staff turnover and poor employee satisfaction, 


 
both of which impact the customer experience


 
Agents work with paper forms or hand-held devices, 


 
both of which are independent from the central hub 


 
of customer/prospect records and therefore data 


 
cannot be collected/verified or used to identify 


 
opportunities


 
Agents tend to sign-up low-value customers and are 


 
given incentives to acquire rather than retain 


 
customers-there is a significant volume of void 


 
contracts


 
Channel is effective at reaching prospects but is not 


 
effective at targeting high-value customers


Above Average
Field sales agents are given realistic targets and 


Criteria
there is a good level of employee satisfaction within 


 
the teams


 
Agents work with hand-held devices which have 


 
remote access to a central hub of customer/prospect 


 
records and therefore data can be collected/verified 


 
or used to identify opportunities


 
Agents tend to attain low-value customers and are 


 
given incentives to acquire rather than retain (for 


 
deletion or revision to indicate some incentive for 


 
customer retention)


 
The number of void contracts is managed via 


 
auto-validation at data input and a requirement for 


 
authentic customer consent


Leading Criteria:
Field sales agents are given realistic targets which 


 
can be attained by working collaboratively with 


 
other teams


 
Training, performance management and rewards 


 
promote high employee satisfaction and a very 


 
positive customer experience


 
Agents use sophisticated selling techniques to 


 
target high-value customers


 
Agents are rewarded for customer retention as 


 
well as acquisition and void contracts and/or 


 
dissatisfied customers are within target


 
Agents are recognized and rewarded for attracting, 


 
up selling, and returning high-value customers


 








 

 
 



TABLE 30


 


Manage Interaction


Channel Management


SMI Home Device


 




 




Description:
Channel Management covers the management and 


 
integration of all channels in which customers 


 
contact the utility. It ensures channel efficiency 


 
and effectiveness by ensuring that there are various 


 
and correctly oriented methods in place for the 


 
customer to contact the utility.


Basic Criteria:
Automated meters are in place with walk by/drive by 


 
collection capability however device does not have a 


 
telemetering capability for transferring remote data


 
Collection of usage patterns on a monthly basis


 
Customer does not have a view of their usage 


 
patterns - traditional billing practices are applied


 
Traditional manual disconnect and reconnection 


 
process still in place


 
Improved data storage capabilities have not been 


 
implemented


 
Outage reporting, power restoration and unusual 


 
activity is not integrated into the automated meter


Threshold Criteria:
Advanced metering infrastructure in place that 


 
allows for remote data collection. Device has one 


 
way communication enabled between retailer and 


 
customer for billing and consumption data


 
Collection of usage patterns on an monthly or 


 
weekly basis


 
Detailed customer usage patterns are provided on 


 
bill


 
Remote power disconnection in place


 
Data system in place to handle increased data 


 
flows. However, system is not aligned effectively 


 
to the other customer information platforms


 
Power outage, restoration information and unusual 


 
usage reports can be generated manually based on 


 
data collection rates. Procedures are handled using 


 
traditional scheduling and dispatch processes


Above Average
Advanced metering device has two-way 


Criteria
communication enabled between retailer and 


 
customer for billing and consumption data


 
Collection of usage patterns in real time with ability 


 
to manually cap household usage and apply timers 


 
during peak timers


 
Robust data system in place to handle influx of 


 
incoming customer data that is aligned with other 


 
customer information systems


 
Home device is directly linked to customer 


 
thermostat


 
Customers are able to access pre-payment metering 


 
systems


 
Customer ability to remotely view time of use 


 
billing plans as well as differing tariff structures via 


 
the web channel


 
Near real-time power outage, restoration information 


 
and unusual usage report generation and handling


Leading Criteria:
Smart metering home device has two-way 


 
communication enabled between retailer and 


 
customer in real time for billing and consumption 


 
data and real-time messaging


 
Device is integrated into a home area network or in 


 
home display linking smart appliances and 


 
thermostat


 
Sophisticated web based e-tools to analyze usage 


 
patterns and consumption levels for customers to 


 
remotely cap household usage, apply timers during 


 
peak hours and be provided with audible usage


 
warnings from the retailer


 
Software controlled real-time disconnection ability 


 
to remotely turn power on or off to a customer


 
Customer ability to remotely change billing plans 


 
(i.e. from credit to prepayment plans as well as 


 
differing time of use tariff structures)


 
Customized suggestions and messages provided to 


 
customers to educate and encourage behavior 


 
changes


 
Custom data solution in place to handle influx of 


 
incoming customer data that is fully integrated with 


 
customer information systems


 
Automated real-time power outage, power 


 
restoration and tamper


 





The following Tables 31-42 provide an explanation of the capabilities and corresponding key assessment areas and performance capability criteria for each capability within the manage core operations platform 106.



 

 
 



TABLE 31


 


Manage Core Operations


Market


Brand Management


 




 




Description:
Brand Management encompasses the capabilities and processes that


 
execute, at a tactical level, the brand strategy. This capability delivers


 
the brand promise and preserves the role of the retail utility's brand


 
internally and externally. This capability supports the delivery of a


 
branded customer experience across the organization.


Basic Criteria:
Brand value is estimated and inaccurate and therefore no


 
investment in measurement or tracking with no proven framework


 
or consistency


 
Attempts are made to ensure a consistent view of the brand through


 
marketing communications but a lack of definition of brand


 
promise makes that ineffective


 
Misalignment between brand promise and customer experience


 
(e.g. Customer Service Agents do not behave as the marketing


 
campaigns imply they should). Not formally tracked or enforced


 
The brand promise does not have an impact on the organization at


 
an operational level


Threshold Criteria:
Brand management group not present but branding activities are


 
carried out by marketing or strategy groups


 
Brand value is calculated according to qualitative research for


 
which there is limited investment


 
No formal focus on/delivery of a branded customer experience due


 
to a lack of infrastructure to support integration of the brand across


 
the organization


 
Agents have brand awareness but are not likely to be able to


 
articulate the brand promise consistently


 
The organization is designed to support branding (e.g. branded


 
offices, branded stationery) but this becomes stale and fails to


 
influence agent behavior


 
Branding initiatives are rolled out in waves, rather than consistently


Above Average
Defined Brand Promise which is communicated via advertising


Criteria
campaigns


 
Brand value is tracked and reported in quantitative terms


 
Branded customer experience is supported by operational


 
infrastructure but not effective in increasing high-value customer


 
satisfaction at a minimal cost


 
Customer-facing agents have brand awareness and are able to


 
articulate the brand promise in terms of their day to day work.


 
Other employees have brand awareness but are not able to


 
articulate the brand promise consistently


 
The organization is designed to support branding and brand


 
promise and this is inconsistently successful in influencing


 
employee and therefore there is little brand management


 
investment


Leading Criteria:
Market strategy, brand management capability and other groups


 
work closely on all communication activity. Branding programs


 
and the brand investment is linked to P&L responsibility


 
Brand value and brand perception are proactively evaluated and


 
managed with tangible brand goals in place


 
Role of brand is understood across all parts of the organization and


 
employees are empowered to ‘live the brand’


 
All employees are given brand management training so that their


 
behavior is consistent with brand promise


 
All employees are able to articulate the brand promise in terms of


 
their responsibilities


 
Organization is designed and delivers a Branded Customer


 
Experience at all customer and employee touch points


 








 

 
 



TABLE 32


 


Manage Core Operations


Market


Lead and Prospect Management


 




 




Description:
Lead and Prospect Management is the generation, qualification and


 
management of customer prospects and leads. The capability includes


 
data management, distribution and quality analysis.


Basic Criteria:
No formal process in place to generate or qualify leads


 
Prospects are not identified until they enter the sales process


 
Lead/prospect data is not stored in a data management tool and


 
becomes stable quickly


 
Success of sales efforts only identified after the sale has been


 
processed or attempted


 
No data enrichment of leads or quality analysis performed


 
Data reviewed periodically and cleaned up annually but data


 
currency is a constant concern


Threshold Criteria:
Prospects are identified and then categorized (basic categorization)


 
No systematic process for lead generation in place


 
Lead/prospect data is enhanced following interaction with sales


 
team


 
Able to provide historical information regarding the quality and


 
disposition of all prospect leads


 
Leads are distributed manually without factoring a reps’ ability to


 
convert lead


 
Simplistic tracking in spreadsheets allows for limited knowledge


 
sharing and no evaluation of ROI by source


Above Average
Prospects are identified and then ranked or categorized


Criteria
Systematic process in place utilizing a simple ranking system


 
Lead/prospect data is proactively enhanced with details but the


 
enhancements lack structure or relevance


 
Leads/prospects are funneled to the sales force and their progress


 
through the sales process is tracked


 
Electronic distribution of leads based on reps abilities


 
Lead generation system generated is integrated with sales tools and


 
customer portal


 
Standardized reporting enable effective tracking of key measures


 
and ROI by source


Leading Criteria:
Prospects are identified and then scored, ranked and categorized


 
All lead activity is tracked in the customer information system


 
Lead/prospect data is proactively enhanced with appropriate details


 
with the aim of assisting the sales force in tailoring


 
communications, product offerings and pricing strategies


 
Lead prospect generation programs are structured so that the


 
quality of leads can be constantly measured


 
Ability to provide real-time and historical information regarding


 
the quality and disposition of all prospect leads


 
Leads are automatically distributed and sales assignments are based


 
on predetermined, multi-level hand-offs points based on the


 
estimated customer conversion rate


 
Automated lead generation system fully integrated with sales force


 
that distributes, tracks, evaluates and continuously improves lead


 
quality - ROI based on short-term revenue and customer's long


 
term value


 








 

 
 



TABLE 33


 


Manage Core Operations


Market


Campaign Management


 




 




Description:
Campaign Management is the retailer's ability to develop and manage


 
the functional and technical capabilities to deliver multi-channel and


 
ongoing marketing messages that support customer acquisition, growth


 
and retention objectives.


Basic Criteria:
Ad hoc direct marketing plan developed that focuses on mass


 
marketing


 
No alignment of direct marketing plan with overall strategy and


 
objectives


 
Target lists are not used for marketing campaigns, instead only


 
mass marketing campaigns are conducted


 
Target lists cannot be maintained due to a lack of infrastructure


 
(i.e. no dedicated marketing database)


 
Campaigns are not piloted/tested within a group of customers, they


 
are simply reviewed and approved internally


 
No standard processes for campaign execution


 
No evaluation of campaigns using performance indicators


Threshold Criteria:
Annual direct marketing plan developed which aligns to marketing


 
strategy


 
Target lists are used for direct marketing campaigns


 
Campaigns are designed for the mass-market rather than for a


 
specific customer type


 
Target lists can be maintained in a dedicated marketing database


 
which simply holds names and addresses rather than other


 
customer data such as communication preferences, behavior,


 
existing product holdings and contact history


 
Databases are not integrated with wider CIS systems and channel


 
management practices


 
Campaigns are piloted/tested within a focus group who are enlisted


 
without consideration for their suitability


 
Campaigns are executed based on a standard delivery process


 
Tracking of simple performance indicators such as cost/benefit


 
analysis of campaigns is performed


Above Average
Annual direct marketing plan aligns marketing strategy, channel


Criteria
management and brand strategy


 
Target lists are used for direct marketing campaigns to a list of


 
names and addresses of considered prospects


 
Campaigns are directed at new customers and existing customers


 
as appropriate


 
Campaign target lists are pulled from an integrated marketing


 
database which has contact information for each supply


 
point/product holding, marketing preference and customer behavior


 
Marketing database exists as a single integrated unit and is updated


 
periodically from the central customer database


 
Campaigns are executed using a defined process that utilizes the


 
channel management plan and customer analytics


 
Campaigns are piloted/tested with a suitable group of


 
prospects/customers of significant size


 
All key performance indicators are tracked for individual


 
campaigns


Leading Criteria:
Annual direct marketing plan developed with key performance


 
indicators identified and updated monthly


 
Target lists are used for direct marketing campaigns based on


 
estimated lifetime customer value


 
Campaigns are designed for and directed to existing customers,


 
new customers and differing customer segments (e.g. size, type,


 
location, behavior)


 
Marketing database has single holistic view of a customer, their


 
product holding and marketing preference


 
Marketing database is updated following every customer contact


 
Sophisticated tools are used to proactively contact prospects via


 
multiple channels (e.g. customized IVR and web messages,


 
specific bill messages or inserts)


 
Optimization of market spend and campaign management based on


 
tangible profitability metrics such as marketing ROI as well as key


 
performance measures


 
Root cause analysis performed to understand and refine campaign


 
effectiveness


 








 

 
 



TABLE 34


 


Manage Core Operations


Market


Loyalty Management


 




 




Description:
Loyalty Management includes the development, design and


 
implementation of programs to increase customer loyalty through


 
multiple avenues such as acquisition, retention, win-back and the


 
identification and recognition of loyal customer segments and


 
individual customers.


Basic Criteria:
No formal customer loyalty program in place


 
Basic schemes are offered to customers and applied inconsistently


 
Execution of the program is not formalized - customer agents apply


 
simple incentives infrequently and on an ad hoc basis


 
Program is not measured formally


 
Insights are not incorporated into the planning of the loyalty


 
program


Threshold Criteria:
Loyalty program in place and customer segments are identified in


 
terms of value but insight is not actively employed for all relevant


 
channels


 
Competitive environment is not considered in planning the loyalty


 
program


 
Rule-based systems are used to execute program that treat


 
customers in a simplistic sequence of events and do not take the


 
full customer experience into consideration


 
Some customer loyalty incentives are offered but are often poorly


 
administered


 
Programs are monitored infrequently and provide little or no


 
insight on possible improvement measures


 
No integration plan between information collected from the insight


 
capabilities and the loyalty program


Above Average
Developed loyalty programs in place for customers - utilizes


Criteria
customer profitability and cost to serve for planning


 
Competitive landscape is applied on an ad hoc basis during the


 
planning phase


 
Loyalty programs are aligned around customer segments and


 
simple forward looking analytics


 
Synchronized executed delivery of the program around the


 
customer experience using profiles, preferences, segments, values,


 
etc.


 
Loyalty program is not successful at reducing customer switching


 
behavior


 
Programs are monitored on an ad hoc basis using simplistic


 
measures


 
There is little integration planning between real-time analysis and


 
pre-processed scoring for the loyalty program and insight


 
capabilities


Leading Criteria:
Advanced loyalty programs in place for customers addressing


 
various requirements based on a scientific, data driven approach to


 
analyze customer drivers, lifetime value and the competitive


 
environment


 
Advanced analytics and decision support technologies are tightly


 
integrated to define and develop the customer loyalty strategy


 
Loyalty program includes multiple offerings that are tailored to


 
specific segments and customer groups


 
Loyalty program is effective at reducing customer churn, is


 
delivered at an optimal cost and can be activated and de-activated


 
in a few simple steps


 
Programs are continuously monitored and adjusted as necessary


 
Loyalty program analytics provide greater ability to understand


 
customers by profile, segment identification, account type, product


 
holdings and performance


 
Recognition of loyal customers occurs proactively


 








 

 
 



TABLE 35


 


Manage Core Operations


Sell


Customer Acquisition


 




 




Description:
Customer Acquisition, also known as registration, is the process of


 
securing a new customer through standard sales channels or through


 
assignment to the retail utility the moment a new account is billable.


Basic Criteria:
Sales capability is independent from the registration capability and


 
has a significant impact on the time taken from customer contract


 
agreement to account creation - means that the sales agent has no


 
view of supply point details at point of sale


 
No formal validation built in to the registration process such as


 
automated address validation


 
Reactive and delayed credit check process


 
Automated bank details validation, identity validation, etc.


 
No integration between Change of Tenancy and Registration


 
processing


 
Change of Tenancy is passed from the registration team to the


 
Change of Tenancy team as an exception


 
Manual communication between suppliers/industry to confirm


 
change of supplier


 
Delay in ability to sign up customers makes it hard to obtain an


 
accurate usage view on move-in


 
Manual discovery of meters for retailer transfers. Market data and


 
CIS system are separate


 
Transfer exceptions are handled manually


Threshold Criteria:
Sales operation is independent from the registration operation but


 
this has very little impact on the time taken from customer consent


 
to active account creation as the teams are integrated and work


 
efficiently together


 
Sales teams have an out of date view of supply point details at


 
point of sale and therefore cannot validate meter details and read at


 
point of entry


 
Some formal validation built into the registration process such as


 
automated address validation, automated bank details validation,


 
identity validation, etc.


 
Manual credit check process


 
Validation steps often cause bottlenecks in the process as


 
exceptions are handled manually and input data is of a poor quality


 
Some automated communication between suppliers/industry parties


 
to confirm change of supplier via workarounds (e.g. spreadsheets)


Above Average
Sales, home move and registration operations integrated in one


Criteria
solution but this is not a cost-optimal solution due to poor quality


 
data, lack of training and poor exception handling


 
Sales teams have a up-to-date view of supply point details at point


 
of sale and therefore can validate meter details and read at point of


 
entry but commonly overlook discrepancies in order to complete


 
the sale


 
Formal validation in place, (such as automated address validation,


 
automated bank details validation, identity validation, etc.) is


 
carried out after point of sale and so data is corrected with the


 
customer still in contact


 
Automated credit check process performed after customer sign-up


 
Existing customers are usually not mistaken for ‘new customers’ as


 
the sales agent has a view of the supply point and associated


 
customers at the point of sale


 
Product/service configuration agreed at point of sale, enabling


 
flexible price plans/payment arrangements


 
Automated communication between suppliers/industry to confirm


 
change of supplier but exception handling requires significant FTE


 
support


Leading Criteria:
Sales, home move and registration operations are integrated in one


 
solution and executed by multi-skilled agents and field


 
representatives who work collaboratively to process transactions


 
within the pre-defined service level agreement


 
Sales teams have an up-to-date view of supply point details at point


 
of sale and therefore can validate meter details in real time


 
Integrated credit check process at the point of sign-up


 
All data is validated on entry, such as addresses, bank details,


 
identity details and credit rating - there are overrides for exceptions


 
like cherished addresses, foreign addresses, customers with poor


 
credit. Validation is automated and has negligible impact on


 
processing times


 
Automated communication between suppliers/industry including


 
filtering and auto-validation of all messages


 
Fully automated and integrated transfer process that confirms a


 
unique meter identifier to the master market data right now to the


 
move in


 
Transfer exceptions are routed automatically to customer service


 
agents


 








 

 
 



TABLE 36


 


Manage Core Operations


Sell


Cross Sell / Up Sell


 




 




Description:
Cross Sell/Up Sell is the process to identify, act on and secure


 
opportunities to increase the value of the customer base and provide


 
additional valued products and services to retail utility customers.


Basic Criteria:
Application architecture does not support the identification of up


 
sell opportunities outside of the standard sales process


 
Data is not available to sales team so that they have a complete


 
view of the customer and their existing product holding


 
Identification and understanding that agents should be trained to


 
convert customer service call to a sales call if prompted by a


 
customer


 
Customers are not offered tangible incentives or bundling options


 
to expand their product holding


 
Customer quotes are often inaccurate due to poor data for tariffs


 
and estimated consumption


 
Enabling one bill for multiple products is a manual and time


 
consuming process


Threshold Criteria:
Application architecture supports the identification of


 
opportunities, primarily driven by the effectiveness of the latest


 
marketing campaign


 
Data is not readily available to sales team but agents do have a


 
view of the supply points available and simple product holdings


 
Identification and understanding that agents should be trained to


 
convert customer service call to a sales call without the need to


 
transfer


 
Customers are offered quotes based on past billing levels via


 
advertising such as bill inserts


 
Customer quotes are often artificially low so as to entice the


 
customer


 
Customer data model is not flexible enough to process a product


 
change in real time with the customer


Above Average
Application and process architecture supports the identification of


Criteria
opportunities through standard customer service and sales


 
processes (e.g. up sell as part of standard wrap up script)


 
Data is available to sales team so that they have a single view of


 
the customer and their product holding at initial point of contact


 
presented to the agent using computer telephony integration (CIT)


 
technology and caller identification


 
Training requires agents to provide customer with a quote (which is


 
auto-generated) during a customer service call, thereby gaining


 
customer commitment before the sales process is initiated


 
Customers are given quotes on a regular basis based on customer


 
segments, past usage and length of time with retailer


 
Customer data model is flexible such that the customer account can


 
remain static for a change to their product holding but this is poorly


 
controlled and tracked


Leading Criteria:
Application and process architecture supports the identification of


 
opportunities following auto-prompts generated according to


 
customer profile


 
Data is available to the sales agent so that they have a single view


 
of the customer and their predicted behavior


 
Agent is automatically informed about recent complaints, sales


 
opportunities and special needs at initial point of contact with


 
customer


 
Training requires agents to respond to auto-prompts and provide


 
customized bundles and quotes to individual customers using a


 
product configuration tool


 
Customers are given quotes on a regular basis according to


 
individual levels of estimated lifetime value and predicted behavior


 
via customized advertising vehicles


 
Customer data model is flexible such that the customer account can


 
remain static for a change to their product holding and can be


 
processed in real time


 








 

 
 



TABLE 37


 


Manage Core Operations


Sell


Retention


 




 




Description:
Retention is the ability to maintain the customer base and promote a


 
customer loyalty program to prevent customer complaints, escalation


 
and churn.


Basic Criteria:
No formal process in place to specifically target high value


 
customers


 
Limited integration with loyalty program when executing retention


 
processes


 
Customer withdrawal process includes mandatory checks for


 
opportunity to object to and potentially save the customer from


 
leaving (these basic checks are in line with regulatory compliance)


 
Customers who have begun the withdrawal process are not targeted


 
by a ‘save campaign’


 
Forwarding details for former customers are not collected


 
Retention program is not measured for effectiveness or efficiencies


Threshold Criteria:
Processes in place to identify high value customers by segment are


 
in place


 
Loyalty program is executed through the retention processes and


 
incentives are in line with delivering a consistent customer


 
experience


 
Customer withdrawal process includes mandatory checks for


 
opportunity to object to and potentially save the customer from


 
leaving (these basic checks are in line with customer advocacy


 
processes and the loyalty program)


 
Forwarding details for former customers are automatically


 
collected so that the customer may be contacted in the future for


 
win-back campaigns


 
Retention program metrics are loosely based on the loyalty


 
program and are in a standard format


Above Average
High value customers are identified using profiles, preferences,


Criteria
segments, and values


 
Loyalty program and analytics are executed through standardized


 
processes to identify and adequately retain high value customer


 
Customer withdrawal process includes mandatory checks for an


 
opportunity to object but also includes a prompt to save the


 
customer


 
The resulting ‘save campaign’ list is sorted such that high value


 
customers are prioritized


 
The process for customers that are retained or ‘saved’ (i.e. they do


 
not complete the withdrawal or are immediately won back) is


 
costly and slow so that ‘cost per save’ is high


 
Individual retention actions are measured for effectiveness and


 
efficiency which roll up into loyalty program metrics


 
Customers who are not saved receive targeted recovery letters or


 
emails inviting their feedback and indicating retailer's interest in


 
having them back as a customer in the future


Leading Criteria:
High value customers identified based on customer drivers and


 
lifetime value to specifically tailor retention offers


 
Retention efforts are directly implemented based on the loyalty


 
program plans


 
The resulting ‘save campaign’ list is sorted such that high value


 
customers are prioritized and the outbound contact is automated via


 
predictive dialing or customers preferred contact method


 
Customers are ‘saved’ (i.e. they do not complete the withdrawal or


 
they are immediately won back) - this process is low cost and quick


 
to react to customer intentions and even predicted intentions


 
Forwarding details of customers who could not be retained is


 
collected with the customers' approval so that the customer may be


 
contacted at a time when they should receive their first bill from


 
their new supplier when their new deal can be reviewed against a


 
competitive offer


 








 

 
 



TABLE 38


 


Manage Core Operations


Serve


Customer Contact


 




 




Description:
Customer Contact is the ability to manage all customer contact and


 
requests/inquiries efficiently by ensuring consistency and quality in the


 
delivery of customer service regardless of the channel. This capability


 
includes the coordination of workflow between locations and functional


 
employee groups.


Basic Criteria:
Workflow is managed manually - no tracking of workflow or


 
reporting on efficiencies


 
Staffing levels do not match effective workflow levels


 
Fluctuating service levels due to lack of reporting and forecasting


 
capabilities


 
Basic inquires are handled at initial point of contact - more


 
advanced inquires need to be followed up


 
Significant customer wait times to access any channel


 
No strategy for handling customers - reactive handling of inquires


 
Reactive and delayed credit check process


 
Quality of contact not evaluated/measured - no quality expectations


 
and no formal/directed training provided


 
Quality and performance management not actively measured


Threshold Criteria:
Workflow managed manually or with limited automation


 
Limited resources assigned to planning and strategy for handling


 
customer inquires - proactive based on real-time issues not on


 
proactive operational improvements


 
Ability to handle more complex inquires in a silo structure


 
Fluctuating wait times


 
Manual credit check process


 
Metrics calculated and contacts spot checked for quality by


 
Operations Management


 
Quality and performance management are managed separately


Above Average
Workflow automated and handled by designated group


Criteria
Strong forecasting capability resulting in high utilization rate of


 
FTEs


 
Efficiency of processes for transactions - implemented initiatives


 
like first call resolution


 
First call resolution focused - handle times are measured with real-


 
time delivery at agent and manager level


 
Knowledge and ability to handle multiple inquires per customer


 
contact


 
Automated credit check process performed after customer sign-up


 
In-house quality team measures metrics and quality and delivers


 
results to employees monthly - customized customer contact


 
quality training


 
Quality and performance management is measured and managed


 
together


Leading Criteria:
Employees cross trained to handle different customer contact


 
channels


 
Workflow managed to highest level of efficiency - coordinated and


 
prioritized around incoming volumes


 
Fully automated and flexible workflow distribution system with


 
automated real-time performance dashboard


 
Proactive meeting of customer needs/inquires


 
Next best action focused when responding to customer inquiries.


 
Agents have access to systems to assist with real-time decision


 
making


 
In-house, centralized quality team and external customer surveys


 
given to measure quality


 
Integrated customer verification process at the point of sign-up that


 
is well understood and proactive


 
Metrics and quality measured and coached throughout month -


 
various training methods offered geared towards individual


 
learners including refresher training programs


 
Focus on gaining efficiencies through a improvements around first


 
contact resolution and next best action


 
Quality is measured proactively by automated tools


 
Employees are seen as a strategic channel for gleaning customer


 
and operational insight and are regularly used to identify and drive


 
improvements


 








 

 
 



TABLE 39


 


Manage Core Operations


Serve


Usage


 




 




Description:
Usage is the ability to collect, validate and store consumption data such


 
that a customer may be billed accurately and in a timely manner. This


 
capability includes gathering all types of meter reads and managing the


 
read schedule.


Basic Criteria:
Reads are costly to collect due to frequent problems accessing


 
some meters


 
Reads are rarely uploaded in a consistent format so that upload


 
processing has a significant level of exception processing.


 
Reads are collected but not validated at the supply point so reads


 
that are entered incorrectly are not amended onsite and the quality


 
of read data uploaded causes high volume of exception processing


 
Reads are often forced complete or estimated if a read is


 
unavailable


 
Meter read scheduling is coordinated (commodity read schedules


 
are integrated where possible) and the majority of meters are read


 
within the required service level agreement


 
Read history is not stored in a single, central location, making


 
replacement billing and disputed reads processing costly and


 
awkward


 
Meter reads are not captured in standardized format, making


 
compilation for analysis and trending difficult (e. g. manually, via


 
spreadsheets, electronic data transfer, and therefore requires


 
significant FTE support)


 
Manual manipulation required for ad hoc or off-cycle readings


 
Inability to assess manual meter read quality and performance at


 
the individual level


Threshold Criteria:
Read collection is fairly efficient and is uploaded using various


 
formats/applications


 
Reads are collected and validated at the supply point using mobile


 
technology improving the quality of the data uploaded


 
Reads are sometimes forced complete or estimated if a read is


 
unavailable


 
Meter read scheduling is complex with reads being distributed


 
across billing cycles for cash flow and threshold processing. All


 
meters are read within the required service level agreements


 
Read history is stored in a single, central location and are


 
controlled by process and business rules


 
Meter operators and meter operator agents are given online access


 
to customer data such that explicit access instructions can be


 
passed from customer to agent and so that the agent follows any


 
required security routine


 
Ability to assess manual meter read quality and performance at the


 
route level only


Above Average
Reads are collected via multiple channels and uploaded in a more


Criteria
standardized format but the tools for analysis and trending are not


 
readily available


 
Regardless of channel or application, all reads are validated at


 
point of entry such that the data uploaded is high quality


 
Reads are rarely forced complete or estimated if a read is


 
unavailable


 
Meter read scheduling is more complex and flexible; can include


 
the ability to automatically balance reading routes and cycle days


 
with travel modes (walking, driving), types of meters (automated


 
and manual read), read required, etc. - ad hoc changes in


 
routes/cycles easily incorporated


 
Read history is stored in a single, central location where it is


 
accessible and simple to maintain


 
Target service levels for timeliness, accuracy and completeness are


 
consistently achieved


 
Ability to assess manual meter read quality and performance


Leading Criteria:
Reads are collected in real time through advanced or smart meters


 
and compiled using a consistent format, enabling trending, analysis


 
and early detection of issues


 
Usage information is available to the customer at the time of use


 
First call resolution for usage inquiries


 
Real-time outage detection technology exists, and where


 
appropriate, is used to inform the usage routine


 
Meter data solution is integrated with billing and CRM solutions to


 
support business processes such as new connections, meter


 
exchanges, settlement and scheduled billing


 
Meter read scheduling is conducted in real time and remotely


 
Read history is stored in a single, central location and is proactively


 
managed


 
Customers have web access to their usage patterns and information


 
with monthly reporting capabilities


 
Usage data is used as a predictive tool for peak times, planned


 
outages, demand side management and advanced tariff structuring.


 
Includes baseline threshold alarms


 
Ability to assess meter read quality and performance at the


 
individual level that is integrated into coaching activities


 








 

 
 



TABLE 40


 


Manage Core Operations


Serve


Billing


 




 




Description:
Billing encompasses the end to end activities to generate accurate bills


 
on schedule. Also included are formatting, printing, invoicing and


 
mailing/sending bills, exception management, adjustment and


 
cancellation.


Basic Criteria:
Bill accuracy levels difficult to manage and incorrect bills are sent


 
out to customers due to poor meter read data and a poor estimation


 
routine


 
Bills are difficult to understand and are not offered online


 
Non-energy bills are separated


 
Customers are not offered tailored billing in terms of frequency,


 
format or language


 
Difficulty reconciling accounts billed versus not billed resulting in


 
customers not being billed for extended periods


 
Vacant premise consumption undetected for long periods


 
Reactively managing billing exceptions through manual, report


 
based distribution of billing work


 
The level of billing exceptions means that the cost per bill is high


 
and potentially unsustainable


 
Volume and type of exceptions not tracked for trending and


 
exception resolution productivity not measured


 
Consolidated, multi-site billing not available or done entirely


 
manually


 
Billing channels are limited


Threshold Criteria:
Customer Service Agents are not consistently able to explain the


 
bill and give information on reads or estimated consumption


 
Bills meet regulatory requirements and offer an auditable


 
calculation of the balance


 
Non-energy charges managed by process work-around, requiring


 
manual entry miscellaneous charges, which impacts


 
receivables/revenue reporting


 
Customers are offered tailored billing, (e.g. budget billing equal


 
installments across the year, event-based billing)


 
Customers can view bills online via a static representation of the


 
current bill


 
Bills re-design process occurs infrequently with little to no


 
customer input


 
The level of billing exceptions requires significant FTE support but


 
is successfully managed by a dedicated root cause analysis and


 
resolution team


 
Manual multi-site billing, some consolidated billing functionality


Above Average
Customer Service Agents are able to explain highly accurate bills


Criteria
Bills meet regulatory requirements and offer an auditable


 
calculation of the balance as well as a user-friendly view of rates,


 
read history and ways to reduce bills in the future


 
Customers are able to resolve queries online themselves


 
Bills are flexible enough to include non-energy billing and allow


 
reflective reporting


 
Customers can view multiple bills online and can make simple


 
online adjustments to filter bill information


 
Bills are used to request payment and demonstrate bill calculation


 
as well as deliver marketing messages and customer service


 
information


 
Bills are available in multiple languages


 
Billing exceptions proactively and successfully managed by a


 
dedicated root cause analysis and resolution team


 
Errors and exceptions automatically routed to specific operators


 
based on pre-determined criteria (e.g. error code and skill level) for


 
resolution before bill sent to customer


 
Automated multi-site consolidated billing


 
Bill re-design process occurs annually with customer feedback


 
aiding the design process


Leading Criteria:
Bills are produced within one day from read to bill


 
Proactive management of operational costs to reduce cost per bill,


 
for example reduced meter reading activity from AMR/SMI


 
devices


 
Month to date billing


 
Bill frequency and format is flexible, includes non-energy


 
components, according to customer preferences, and cost per bill


 
is optimal


 
End-to-end billing routine in finely tuned and monitored for early


 
detection of any process failure


 
Customer have the ability to select their predominant channel such


 
as e-billing


 
Customers can perform advanced queries online, generate on


 
demand bills based on recent transactions, download in various


 
formats and make adjustments


 
Automated root cause and exception handling based on predefined


 
business logic


 
In-house quality assurance team for the back office transaction


 
monitoring that utilizes automated real time tools and dashboards


 
Customers can choose billing channel, delivery method and


 
preferred format


 
Bill re-design occurs annually and includes ongoing customer and


 
employee feedback


 








 

 
 



TABLE 41


 


Manage Core Operations


Serve Payments


 




 




Description:
Payments is the ability to process inbound customer 


 
payments. This capability includes managing the 


 
range of payment options available, working with 


 
payment processing vendor(s), reconciliation of the


 
customer's account and managing prompt payment.


Basic Criteria:
Payments take time to be uploaded and credited to 


 
a customer's account and therefore retailer is unable 


 
to offer/manage prompt-pay incentives for customers


 
Payment batches come from several sources and 


 
require significant manual effort to upload and 


 
reconcile


 
Missing payments (payments that are received but 


 
cannot be matched to an active account), drive 


 
customer complaints


 
Customers are restricted in terms of payment


 
method/frequency/options and this is a 


 
prominent source of customer dissatisfaction


Threshold Criteria:
Payments are uploaded and credited to a customer's 


 
account quickly - this is subject to a significant 


 
volume of exceptions and therefore requires high 


 
levels of FTE support


 
Payment returns and associated fees are manually 


 
processed


 
Prompt-pay incentives are offered to customers


 
Missing payments (payments that are received but 


 
cannot be matched to an active account) are 


 
followed-up and manually worked to ensure 


 
minimal unallocated payments


 
Customers are offered multiple payment options 


 
(e.g. cash, direct debit, pre-authorized payments, 


 
third party)


Above Average
All payments are automatically uploaded and 


Criteria
credited to a customer's account efficiently and at 


 
negligible operational cost


 
Prompt-pay incentives are proactively offered to 


 
customers and prompt-pay discounts automatically 


 
assigned via standard bill processing


 
Payment exceptions are infrequent and proactively 


 
managed to resolution


 
Customers are offered multiple payment options, 


 
methods, plans and channels (i.e. payment by IVR, 


 
web, pre-payment meters)


 
Customers can make reoccurring payment 


 
arrangements via the online billing system


Leading Criteria:
Payments are uploaded and credited to a customer's 


 
account automatically and efficiently - cost per 


 
payment is optimal


 
All available one time and recurring payment 


 
platforms are consistent through all customer 


 
interaction channels


 
Returned payments and associated fees are 


 
automatically processed


 
Prompt-pay incentives are proactively offered 


 
to customers and prompt-pay discounts assigned 


 
via standard bill processing - customers are also 


 
given incentives to take up low-cost payment


 
options such as direct debit


 
Misapplied payments are placed in exception and 


 
rectified by next billing cycle


 
Outsourcing of return mail processing


 
Ability to direct payments to clear receivables and 


 
prevent allocation to disputed receivables (until 


 
resolved)


 
Customers are offered multiple and flexible 


 
payment options, methods and plans


 
Ability to adjust billing/payment cycles for 


 
customers on demand


 








 

 
 



TABLE 42


 


Manage Core Operations


Serve Credit & Collections


 




 




Description:
Credit & Collections is the ability to establish and 


 
implement a defined credit policy and manage 


 
customer credit. This includes the ability to control 


 
credit according to customer value and maintain 


 
an effective cost to collect.


Basic Criteria:
Collections objective is not formally defined and 


 
can fluctuate according to management team or 


 
overall retail performance


 
No formal identity verification capability and 


 
external credit check is available on an exceptional 


 
basis


 
Ad hoc debt management and tracking


 
No segmentation or products for high credit risk 


 
customers


 
Standard debt collection methods and techniques 


 
are available


 
Credit policies are designed according to statutory 


 
requirements


 
Customers in debt are treated aggressively but this 


 
can be problematic when customer debt is 


 
incorrectly calculated. Retailer has been subject to 


 
regulator penalties for poor customer treatment


 
No standardized policy for commodity theft


 
External collection agency not usually utilized for 


 
bad debt


 
No standard approach/policy for handling 


 
bankruptcies, write-offs or receiverships


Threshold Criteria:
Collections objective is account reconciliation


 
Identity verification is not available as a standard 


 
solution, external credit check is available on an 


 
exceptional basis


 
Customers are offered a security deposit option to 


 
minimize their credit risk and this is managed 


 
manually


 
Credit management team are reactive to customers 


 
in debt and tend to handle customers manually


 
The retailer offers a standard set of collection 


 
methods and techniques according to level of debt, 


 
rather than customer insight analysis


 
Advanced “sensitivity” training, “talk-off” 


 
training (negotiating skills) provided to agents


 
Commodity theft measures are reactive and 


 
handled manually


 
Allocation to external collection agency is manual 


 
and time consuming to reconcile


 
Standard policies for handling bankruptcies, 


 
write-offs and receiverships but very manual 


 
process


Above Average
Collections objective is loss minimization and 


Criteria
non-payment exposure


 
New customers are subject to identity verification 


 
as standard but there are few guidelines for external 


 
credit check. This means that agents tend to run 


 
improper credit checks


 
Credit policy offers programs and differing 


 
treatments for all customer segments which align 


 
with regulator


 
Customers are offered limited credit products to 


 
reduce overall risk


 
Policies in place for commodity theft management


 
Accounts automatically selected for transfer to 


 
external collection agency. Transparent 


 
reconciliation of payments and commission 


 
calculation


 
Handling of bankruptcies, write-offs and 


 
receiverships are partially automated


 
Collection campaigns and techniques are 


 
refreshed such that customers are not de-


 
sensitized


 
Credit system integrated with billing and CRM 


 
system, ensuring real-time information and 


 
access to customer notes


 
Automated selection based on pre-set criteria for 


 
accounts eligible for disconnection - manual review 


 
option before dispatch


Leading Criteria:
Collections objective is profit maximization and this 


 
manifests itself as an integrated solution for tariff/


 
rate management, payment processing and 


 
managing customer experience.


 
All outbound calls are process automatically


 
Utilization of third party management and tools in 


 
the billing cycle


 
All new customers are subject to an identity and 


 
credit check


 
The retailer seeks to understand why a customer is 


 
in debt and will tailor collection methods 


 
accordingly. Treatments incorporate internal and 


 
external payment patterns


 
Customers are offered a various credit products to 


 
minimize credit risk before collections costs are 


 
incurred (e.g. security deposits, credit checks, pre-


 
payment plans, flexible bill dates)


 
Retailer has the ability to balance willingness to 


 
pay and collection costs


 
Standardized policies in place for revenue 


 
protection management


 
“Scientific” collection management (i.e. 


 
propensity to pay) and predictive behavioral 


 
analytics utilized


 
Payment arrangement installment plans fully 


 
automated (including collection action on 


 
default, cancelled installment plans and transfers)


 
Final accounts are accounted for by a customer 


 
leaving the retailer with a final bill matching the 


 
final bill transfer


 
Automated release management of security 


 
deposits based preset criteria


 





The following Tables 43-46 provide an explanation of the capabilities and corresponding key assessment areas and performance capability criteria for each capability within the manage supply platform 108.



 

 
 



TABLE 43


 


Manage Supply


Demand Forecast


 




 




Description:
Demand Forecast enables a retail utility to 


 
determine customer commodity demand in the 


 
long term, short term and intra-day. This includes 


 
forecasting base demand, incremental demand 


 
from customer acquisition or growth, and 


 
reductions from customer churn or shrinking 


 
market demand.


Basic Criteria:
Long-term, sales-based forecasting is poor 


 
and increases risks associated with supply


 
Short-term, forecasting is not a key skill 


 
within team


 
Inability to incorporate weather forecasts into 


 
short term demand


 
Inability to develop intraday forecasts


 
Retail and wholesale do not communicate 


 
effectively and are therefore unable to work 


 
collaboratively


 
Forecasts are reviewed on an ad hoc basis 


 
with no regular checkpoints


Threshold Criteria:
Some successful long-term and short-term 


 
forecasting based on sales


 
Poor short-term weather based forecasting


 
Poor ability to forecast economic and industry 


 
trends in both the long and short term


 
Teams are informally integrated with customer 


 
supply forecasting - looking at churn rates


 
Forecasts are periodically updated


Above Average
Accurate short term, long-term and intra-day 


Criteria
forecasting based on sales


 
Limited success in weather-based short-term 


 
forecasting


 
Relatively accurate forecasts of the market, 


 
macro-economic and industry segment trends 


 
are incorporated into the short and long term 


 
forecasts


 
Wholesale group uses periodic forecast data


 
Teams are formally integrated with customer 


 
supply forecasting


 
Forecasts are regularly reviewed and updated


 
Demand forecast is fed into a Value at Risk 


 
(VAR) model


Leading Criteria:
Excellent long-term forecasting as well as 


 
weather-based/short-term forecasting


 
Dynamic and reactive to short-term and 


 
real-time forecasting


 
Advanced ability to forecast market, economic 


 
and industry trends using a variety of sources


 
Intelligent ability to balance the market forces 


 
as wholesale and retail market teams interact 


 
under protocols defined by long term and 


 
short-term agreements.


 
Day ahead view of customer sign-up and 


 
disconnects integrated into short-term forecasts


 
Adherence to protocols for intraday forecasts


 
Effective communication between teams focused 


 
on different markets


 
Advanced modeling and multi-variant analysis 


 
is used to consistently re-evaluate demand 


 
forecasts


 
Sophisticated modeling tools in place that are 


 
integrated with other systems


 








 

 
 



TABLE 44


 


Manage Supply


Procurement


 




 




Description:
Procurement includes identifying and negotiating 


 
commodity supply procurement contracts. This 


 
could include long-term supply agreements, internal 


 
transfer agreements (if the utility also has generation 


 
to transport capabilities), market sourcing, 


 
participation in Power Purchase Arrangements or


 
spot market sourcing.


Basic Criteria:
Wholesale and retail are not integrated in 


 
communicating demand forecast changes, 


 
risk allocation and transfer and product pricing


 
Poor optimization of supply portfolio


 
Poor at managing short-term weather based 


 
swing risk (i.e. no integration with demand 


 
forecasting)


Threshold Criteria:
Wholesale and retail level of integration is marginal


 
Communication on demand forecast changes is 


 
sporadic


 
Suboptimal supply portfolio balance


 
Risk allocation and transfer is marginal - sporadic 


 
management of swing risk


Above Average
Wholesale and retail are integrated in certain 


Criteria
aspects (i.e. communication of long-term sales 


 
forecasts may be good, but short-term weather 


 
based forecasts may be sporadic or unreliable)


 
Risk allocation & transfer may be consistent for 


 
base load type customers (wholesale look alike) 


 
but not swing customers - swing risk 


 
management may be sporadic


 
Optimization of supply portfolio meets 


 
business goals and objectives


 
Experimentation with broader, innovative 


 
demand-side strategies and investment in 


 
customer facilities (e.g. Owning certain 


 
components of the building energy plant)


 
Demand reductions included in supply planning


Leading Criteria:
Wholesale and retail are well integrated in 


 
communicating demand forecast changes, risk 


 
allocation & transfer and product pricing (i.e. 


 
good at managing short-term weather based 


 
swing risk)


 
Active load balancing between wholesale and 


 
retail - dynamic response to market conditions


 
Common wholesale and retail portfolio


 
End-to-end integration with demand forecasting 


 
and settlements management


 
Excellent optimization of supply portfolio that 


 
exceeds expectation


 
Advanced use of alternative energy supplies 


 
and procurement to balance requirements and 


 
reduce ecological footprint


 
Fully integrated with pricing strategy


 








 

 
 



TABLE 45


 


Manage Supply


Contract Management


 




 




Description:
Contract Management covers the maintenance and 


 
management of commodity supply contracts. The 


 
focus of this capability is effective supplier and 


 
materials management for the optimal efficient 


 
purchase of required commodities.


Basic Criteria:
Basic agreements available with tightly defined 


 
parameters


 
Contracts are manually tracked causing delays 


 
and higher instances of mishandling agreements


 
Reactive audits of specified contracts to ensure 


 
enforcement


 
Ad hoc risk assessments completed for potential 


 
agreements


Threshold Criteria:
Standardized agreements available with 


 
customizable aspects


 
Basic contract management system in place 


 
with shared resources


 
Periodic reviews of sample agreements to ensure 


 
compliance


 
Basic risk assessments conducted by segmentation 


 
of contract type


Above Average
Customizable contracts available with structures 


Criteria
and parameters in templates


 
Advanced contract management system in place 


 
with electronic searching, advice of key dates, etc.


 
Regular reviews of contracts are used to uphold 


 
contract terms and conditions


 
Thorough risk assessments completed for each 


 
agreement by specialized resources


Leading Criteria:
Fully customized contracts available utilizing 


 
specialized resources


 
Virtual or centralized contract management 


 
system with dedicated support resources


 
Contractual arrangements are automatically 


 
monitored against all commodity use to ensure 


 
contract compliance


 
Automated and sophisticated risk assessment 


 
tools are employed to ensure risks are mitigated 


 
and agreements are swiftly executed


 








 

 
 



TABLE 46


 


Manage Supply


Settlement


 




 




Description:
Settlement includes supplier invoice validation, 


 
processing and remittance. Also included in this 


 
capability are processes to ensure that aggregate 


 
consumption across the customer base has been 


 
accounted for and balances with the supplied 


 
commodity amounts that are being charged by 


 
suppliers.


Basic Criteria:
Annual balancing with demand forecasting 


 
and logged consumption


 
Infrastructure charges for consumed 


 
commodities do not always correlate with 


 
calculated consumption


 
Settlements strategy aligned with credit 


 
risk strategy


 
No credit risk strategy


 
Reactive or sporadic balancing and 


 
investigation of discrepancies


 
Irregular supply/distribution balancing leads


 
to regular write-offs of substantial value


Threshold Criteria:
Periodic balancing with demand forecasting 


 
and logged consumption


 
Infrastructure charges mostly correlate with 


 
calculated consumption


 
Reactive strategy for credit risk


 
Tracking of settled prices versus consumed value


 
Tracking of volume nomination versus scheduled 


 
volumes versus contractual volumes


 
Periodic balancing and investigation of 


 
discrepancies leads to the reduction of write-offs 


 
to minimal amounts


Above Average
Regular auditing and balancing with demand 


Criteria
forecasting and logged consumption


 
Infrastructure charges can be mapped to 


 
calculated consumption - all comparisons are 


 
auditable


 
Proactive strategy for credit risk and 


 
counterparty risk


 
Tracking of settled prices versus consumed 


 
value


 
Regular balancing and investigation of 


 
discrepancies leads to write-offs only 


 
being used in exceptional cases


Leading Criteria:
Ongoing auditing and balancing with demand 


 
forecasting and logged consumption


 
Detailed tracking of volume nomination 


 
versus scheduled volumes versus contractual 


 
volumes


 
Ongoing strategy for credit risk


 
Top performer capable of offering a managed 


 
service externally as a balancing provider


 
Ongoing balancing and investigation of any 


 
discrepancies virtually eliminating any 


 
imbalance write-offs


 





The following Tables 47-50 provide an explanation of the capabilities and corresponding key assessment areas and performance capability criteria for each capability within the manage field requests platform 110.



 

 
 



TABLE 47


 


Manage Field Requests


Field Request Management


 




 




Description:
Field Request Management includes processes to 


 
manage requests for field services transactions, 


 
such as meter installations, distribution system 


 
repairs, meter exchanges, or emergency services.


Basic Criteria:
Field requests are received from customers and 


 
relayed to the receiving distribution centre within 


 
established service timelines via limited channels


 
Meter reads are accepted by retail customer 


 
service agents


 
Tracking system is basic - minimal individual 


 
request information is available to the customer 


 
service agents. This leads to long turnaround 


 
times for information requests and inefficient 


 
use of time spent liaising with the distribution 


 
entity's field service operations


 
No feedback loop exists to confirm completion 


 
of requests


Threshold Criteria:
Field requests can be submitted by customers 


 
via online, self-service channels


 
Once validated, retail customer service agents 


 
can automatically send and receive service 


 
requests and reply to information within agreed 


 
upon service standard timelines


 
Meter readings can be accepted through a self-


 
service channel


 
Agents can access the distribution entity's field 


 
service operations log to track progress of 


 
specific requests


 
Periodic audit of completed requests allows 


 
Retail Customer


 
Service Agents to confirm if requests have 


 
been handled/addressed in a past period


Above Average
Customer Service Agents are provided with 


Criteria
regular updates on the status of field service 


 
requests via multiple channels


 
Regular reporting - provides a more time-


 
sensitive view of request completion


 
Proactive messaging is available through 


 
self-service channels (web, IVR, etc.) notifying 


 
customers of major requests that have already 


 
been logged


 
Information can be retrieved by customers on 


 
an “as requested” basis (for specific requests) 


 
through self-service channels


Leading Criteria:
Proactive real-time communications relayed 


 
to customers regarding potential work, outages, 


 
or impacts through multi-channels (SMS, 


 
email, voice, etc.)


 
On demand, real time updates and information 


 
is available to customer service agents


 
Requests are logged and updated with specific 


 
tracking numbers


 
Updates and information available about 


 
specific requests on demand for customers 


 
via self and full service channels


 
Real-time two way communication channels 


 
between distribution service centers and retail 


 
customer service representatives enable the 


 
timely flow and distribution of information


 
Ability to schedule field requests within a 


 
specified window that is adhered to and 


 
communicated to the customer


 








 

 
 



TABLE 48


 


Manage Field Requests


New Connection


 




 




Description:
New Connection encompasses the ability to install 


 
new meters in new construction areas, replace faulty 


 
or outdated existing meters, and provide final open 


 
or live connection to the distribution network or


 
pipeline for customers. This capability also covers 


 
recording the site as “live” in the related customer 


 
information system to enable billing.


Basic Criteria:
Requests for new connections accepted by Customer 


 
Service Agents through a manual process. This can 


 
lead to delays, mishandling of requests, and an 


 
inability to track or estimate costs


 
New connections are requested individually, 


 
creating a labor intensive manual process for 


 
multiple connections


 
Changing ownership and associated reconciliations 


 
are done manually


 
No distinction between residential, development 


 
or commercial connection requests


Threshold Criteria:
New connection requests are handled and manually 


 
entered into a customer information system 


 
enabling tracking


 
Ad hoc processes (spreadsheets, etc.) are utilized 


 
to assist with multiple or bulk connections


 
Change of ownership and reconciliations are done 


 
manually with agents diarizing dates to reconfirm 


 
with customers


 
Consistent processes utilized for all segments


 
Separate queues or contact points based on 


 
customer segmentation


Above Average
Customer information system able to track and 


Criteria
proactively provide agents estimating guidelines 


 
and standard estimates


 
Automated processes are utilized to create multiple 


 
connection requests


 
Ownership changes and energy use reconciliations 


 
are processed automatically when triggered by a 


 
request


 
Dedicated channels for each customer segment


 
Customized processes and service level standards 


 
developed for each customer segment based on 


 
strategic importance, profitability and lifetime 


 
value


 
Shared account services team able to process 


 
connection requests


Leading Criteria:
Request management system able to track and 


 
proactively notify customers of the state of their 


 
request


 
Online or automated scheduling enables service 


 
calls to be booked and optimized to minimize 


 
travel or equipment delays for crews


 
Integrated modules or tools in the request 


 
management system create multiple connections, 


 
track and monitor ownership and proactively 


 
alert contacts to changes in costs or connections


 
through the development process


 
Change of ownership is completed automatically 


 
on a pre-arranged date and all charges are 


 
appropriately assigned


 
Dedicated real time channels and processes to 


 
optimally serve various customer segments 


 
(residential, development or commercial)


 
Customer care and crews have a single view 


 
of the customer available in real time


 
Dedicated account managers process individual 


 
connection requests


 
Customer can bill on behalf of a real-estate 


 
management company or builder


 








 

 
 



Table 49


 


Manage Field Requests


Emergency Response


 




 




Description:
Emergency Response includes the ability to respond 


 
and address an emergency situation such as a gas 


 
leak, downed power line or intrusion into a high 


 
voltage area. The ability to dispatch adequately 


 
trained and equipped response teams is critical in 


 
ensuring incident prevention and management.


Basic Criteria:
Emergency notifications received by retail contact 


 
centre


 
Basic messages available for agents to notify 


 
customers of potential issues


 
Notifications and requests relayed to emergency 


 
crews - no feedback loop exists


 
All notifications relayed directly to the distribution 


 
response team


 
Emergency disconnections are requested and 


 
handled at the discretion of the distribution 


 
response team


Threshold Criteria:
Emergency situation notifications received via s


 
multiple channel


 
Feedback notifications regarding specific events 


 
available on an as needed basis


 
Retail agents receive notifications and assign to 


 
pre-assigned (broad) categories


 
Emergency energy disconnections are requested 


 
through the distribution organization


Above Average
Notifications are triaged according to severity by 


Criteria
a pool of up-skilled agents


 
Detailed information is gathered and relayed to 


 
the response team


 
Ongoing updates are provided to retail agents 


 
for the purpose of updating customers


 
Emergency disconnection requests are entered 


 
and transmitted directly to response crews


Leading Criteria:
Emergency notifications are accepted via all 


 
communication channels available including 


 
smart metering infrastructure technology


 
Agents with specialized skills interact directly 


 
with emergency response crews to actively 


 
support the response process


 
Agents are able to answer queries on the cause 


 
of the outage, when restoration will occur, the 


 
breadth of the impact and assess the outage 


 
window


 
Proactive, real-time communications with 


 
customers, media, government and regulators 


 
via multiple channels (voice, SMI, IVR, email, 


 
SMS, door knockers, etc.) to advise of potential 


 
emergency situations and the status of current 


 
responses


 
Integrated initiation of execution of emergency 


 
response plans as appropriate


 
Two-way communications are seamless between 


 
the retailer and the emergency response team. 


 
Response team has real time access back to 


 
customer care information


 
Customer care has the ability to identify the exact 


 
cause of the problem remotely


 
Energy supply can be remotely disconnected in 


 
emergency situations with minimal delays


 








 

 
 



TABLE 50


 


Manage Field Requests


Meter Data Management


 




 




Description:
Meter Data Management includes the organization 


 
of meter data according to supply point 


 
configuration, data security, data quality 


 
management and integrity.


Basic Criteria:
Meter data is imported using ad hoc methods 


 
and templates leading to inconsistent data - a 


 
high volume of exceptions and billing backlogs. 


 
Backlogs tend to become regulatory compliance 


 
issues or have major impacts on business 


 
performance


 
No proactive management of meter data quality


 
Meter data is stored and modeled in several 


 
applications and therefore does not support a 


 
robust data model


 
Historical meter data is stored according to 


 
regulatory requirements but it inaccessible 


 
and is not auditable


 
Meter data database has no concept of, or 


 
alignment with, business processes, it is simply 


 
a data repository. Relevant meter data is also 


 
stored in other systems/formats (e.g. customer 


 
records or spreadsheets)


Threshold Criteria:
Meter data is imported and transferred using 


 
inconsistent file formats which require complex 


 
validation. Meter data management typically 


 
requires a significant FTE impact and lack of data 


 
integrity affects the customer experience


 
No dedicated meter data management solution - 


 
data is managed according to standard report 


 
formats across all back office operations. 


 
Resolution of issues and improvement in 


 
performance requires skilled IT resources


 
Meter data is stored and modeled in a few 


 
major applications and therefore supports a 


 
consistent data model


 
Meter data is stored in multiple systems (without 


 
a clearly defined master) in order to be aligned 


 
with other business functions but this means that 


 
the data can become inconsistent across systems


Above Average
Meter data is imported and transferred using 


Criteria
standard file formats which are subject to 


 
automated validation to ensure consistent data 


 
integrity. This upload of data generates a high 


 
volume of exceptions and therefore can affect 


 
the efficiency of back office operations and 


 
impact the customer experience


 
Meter data management system offers analysis 


 
tools for data quality but cannot quickly and 


 
consistently identify the root cause of data 


 
integrity issues. Resolution of issues and 


 
improvement in performance is supported by 


 
system tools and therefore does not always 


 
require skilled IT resources


 
Meter data is mastered in one application. 


 
Data dictionaries are created but poorly 


 
maintained and often out of date - this can lead 


 
to inconsistent data entity definitions in other 


 
systems


 
Meter data management solution is configured 


 
to support business processes such as new 


 
connections, meter exchanges, settlement and 


 
scheduled billing


Leading Criteria:
Meter data is imported and transferred using 


 
standard file formats which are subject to 


 
automated validation and auto-correction to 


 
ensure consistent data integrity. Exceptions 


 
are handled within


 
SLA to ensure no backlog for the upload of 


 
reads and generation of bills


 
Meter data is transferred in real time via smart 


 
metering home devices


 
Meter data management system offers graphical 


 
analysis tools for comparing raw/industry data 


 
to system edited data and will track defined KPI 


 
values


 
Meter data is mastered in one application and 


 
data integrity in other systems is ensured by the 


 
clear definition of an integrated data model (data 


 
dictionary, data event modeling, metadata defined)


 
All historical meter data is stored and is auditable 


 
to specific user edits enabling efficient resolution 


 
of data integrity issues


 
Meter data management solution is integrated 


 
with billing and CRM solutions to support 


 
business processes such as new connections, meter 


 
exchanges, settlement and scheduled billing


 





The following Tables 51-55 provide an explanation of the capabilities and corresponding key assessment areas and performance capability criteria for each capability within the manage retail insight platform 112.



 

 
 



TABLE 51


 


Manage Retail Insight


Data Management


Customer Insight


 




 




Description:
Customer Insight is the ability to analyze 


 
customers according to attributes, usage 


 
intentions and behavior. The output of this 


 
analysis and modelling will support the 


 
identification and generation of initiatives to 


 
influence how best to market, sell, and serve 


 
customers, and can also be used to evaluate 


 
channel effectiveness.


Basic Criteria:
Customer channel usage is not tracked for each 


 
customer or reason for inbound contact


 
No formal processes, tools or methodologies in 


 
place to gather and analyze customer data


 
Any ad hoc analysis carried out tends to be costly 


 
due to poor quality data, a lack of focus on what 


 
metrics are required and inconsistent sponsorship 


 
and management


 
Customer data report offer an inaccurate view of 


 
the customer


 
Mystery shop calls are made to assess the 


 
customer experience during customer interaction 


 
but this is then assessed on a subjective basis and 


 
this can be problematic in terms of ensuring all 


 
agent assessments can be comparable


 
Customers are not asked to carry out a survey as 


 
this is seen as inciting criticism


 
It is not known how many times a customer calls 


 
in a given period or why they have contacted the 


 
utility


 
No formal processes in place to track and measure 


 
the impact and effectiveness of past improvement 


 
initiatives


Threshold Criteria:
Customer channel usage is tracked for reason for 


 
inbound contact.


 
Records of customer contact are created each 


 
time a customer calls, e.g. agents are required 


 
to complete a 'wrap up' at the end of each call.


 
Basic information is gathered from the IVR and 


 
WEB but lacks common channel integration 


 
strategy and usability of insight data


 
First call resolution is measured but not 


 
consistently and not well defined


 
Tools or methodologies used to analyze customers 


 
are unsophisticated and not reliable


 
Customer information is collected and analyzed on 


 
ad hoc basis, as per requirements


 
Basic information is gathered from the IVR and 


 
WEB but lacks common channel integration 


 
strategy and usability of insight data


 
No formal processes are in place for turning 


 
customer insight into actionable feedback, 


 
reports and continuous improvement initiatives


 
Mystery shop calls are supported by call recording 


 
to assess the customer experience during customer 


 
interaction and this is then assessed on a formal 


 
basis


 
Customers are occasionally asked to carry out a 


 
survey which is sent with their bill and requires 


 
customer to return a form by post.


 
Forms which are not returned are not chased and 


 
data received is difficult to analyze


 
Customer channel usage is tracked for reason for 


 
inbound contact


 
No formal team in place


 
Ad hoc processes and metrics in place to assess 


 
past initiatives


Above Average
Records of customer contact are created each time 


Criteria
a customer calls, e.g. agents are required to complete 


 
a ‘wrap up’ at the end of each call.


 
IVR & WEB analytics are extracted and transformed 


 
into customer specific or enterprise data warehouse. 


 
Exploration of channel analytic tools (e.g., ClickFox) 


 
to drive higher utilization underway


 
First call resolution is measured and assessed


 
Tools and processes used to analyze customers are 


 
unsophisticated but reliable and standardized


 
Customer information is collected and analyzed on 


 
a formal basis and information includes customer 


 
intentions, preferences and characteristic


 
Mystery shop calls are supported by call recording 


 
to assess the customer experience during customer 


 
interaction and formally assessed


 
Customers are sometimes asked to carry out a 


 
survey at the point of contact, either online or 


 
at the end of a phone call. Customers who


 
choose not to respond are not identified and 


 
reported


 
Customer experience is measured in tangible 


 
terms and detailed customer responses produce 


 
actionable feedback and regular reporting


 
Multi-discipline team works with customer and 


 
market strategy development teams


 
Past improvement initiatives are tracked 


 
inconsistently


Leading Criteria:
Customer channel usage is tracked for reason 


 
for inbound contact.


 
This data is then used to identify trends and 


 
customer preferences.


 
Records of customer contact are created each 


 
time a customer makes contact with the utility. 


 
Calls and self-service channels are tracked alike


 
Sophisticated channel and customer intentions 


 
insight captured within channel analytics tools, 


 
intention mining software, and enterprise data 


 
warehouse(s)


 
First call resolution is measured and assessed. 


 
Multiple measurement methods are used to 


 
accurately reflect customer experience and 


 
effectiveness of operations


 
Customer information is collected and analyzed 


 
on a regular, consistent and formal basis using 


 
sophisticated psychometric and/or behavioral 


 
techniques, providing a coherent single view of 


 
customer behavior and needs


 
Customer analytic tools include the utilization 


 
of predictive modeling, multiple channels used 


 
to gain insight


 
Insight data is synthesized into a format that 


 
allows for rapid root cause analysis and the 


 
production of standardized customer insight


 
reports that are aligned to organizational metrics


 
Dedicated continuous improvement processes 


 
and initiative tracking


 
Structured, dedicated lab/pilot environment for 


 
evaluating any changes to customer experience


 
Customer survey is innovative and tailored to 


 
specific segments


 
Customer channel usage is tracked in real time 


 
and cross referenced with customer behavior


 
Dedicated customer analysis team works closely 


 
with customer and market strategy development 


 
teams


 
The quality program is calibrated with customer 


 
expectations consistently and at a fixed frequency


 
Standard process and key performance metrics 


 
used to continually track past initiatives


 








 

 
 



TABLE 52


 


Manage Retail Insight


Market Insight


Marketing Analytics


 




 




Description:
Marketing Analytics is the ability to gather information on key


 
marketing performance indicators and to ensure that utilities can 


 
invest in the highest yielding marketing initiatives and evaluate 


 
marketing effectiveness around targeting, campaign 


 
effectiveness, loyalty management and brand management.


Basic Criteria:
Marketing programs and campaigns are not tracked via


 
standardized processes and methodologies


 
No processes in place to gather data on marketing levers


 
Campaigns have no formal response tracking and measurement


 
once executed


 
Analysis and continuous improvement capabilities do not exist to


 
further develop marketing effectiveness


 
Little effort made to apply the learning from previous marketing


 
campaigns to enhance effectiveness of future initiatives


 
Key metrics such as marketing ROI, lead costs and uptake rates 


 
are not effectively tracked


 
No dedicated resources in place to gather marketing data and


 
provide meaningful insight


 
No formal processes in place to track and measure the impact 


 
and effectiveness of past improvement initiatives


Threshold Criteria:
Simplistic pre-existing analysis tools and models adapted for


 
individual marketing analysis efforts developed independently 


 
and housed in multiple repositories


 
Analysis efforts require extensive data consolidation and


 
manipulation prior to use due to unstructured and fragmented


 
approach


 
Marketing initiative success is inferred from historical data 


 
to drive capability assessments


 
Manual report generation is available but costly and time


 
consuming to implement


 
No process in place to share findings throughout the differing


 
market functions to drive wider insights


 
Insights drive continuous improvement projects to new marketing


 
are conducted on an ad hoc basis and are effectively tracked or


 
aligned back initiatives


 
Key metrics such as marketing ROI, lead costs and uptake 


 
rates are manually calculated


 
Marketing team provides resources on an as needed basis to


 
implement projects from key insights


 
Ad hoc processes and metrics in place to assess past initiatives


Above Average
Marketing data analysis is collected from databases that share a


Criteria
Analysis of data provides automated and standardized report


 
generation to cut both process time and cost


 
Marketing program success is derived from a blend of general


 
historic metrics as well as the gap analysis between actual and


 
expected results


 
Regular reporting and normalized common view databases allow


 
for knowledge sharing between differing marketing capabilities


 
Standard processes to use knowledge gained from previous 


 
efforts to design enhanced marketing programs and campaigns


 
Insights are not consistently applied to marketing and resource


 
decisions


 
Marketing programs and campaigns are routinely and rigorously


 
tested using standardized metrics


 
Key metrics such as marketing ROI, lead costs and uptake 


 
rates are automatically calculated


 
Past improvement initiatives are tracked using inconsistent


 
approaches


Leading Criteria:
User friendly tools and methodologies in place that integrate data


 
stores from all marketing channels and programs to routinely and


 
rigorously test and report on programs


 
Analysis of data includes predictive modeling used to continually 


 
improve programs and determine individual program contributions


 
Marketing program success is derived from systemic 


 
measurement of KPIs linked to specific marketing efforts 


 
and customer response to improve future initiatives


 
Standardized root cause analysis methodologies in place to 


 
support identification of insights for continuous 


 
improvement and knowledge sharing


 
New programs are not implemented until tested with select


 
customers


 
Key metrics such as marketing ROI are automatically calculated


 
for individual initiatives


 
Integrated with performance management functions to drive


 
improved effectiveness and align people objectives with


 
corporate goals


 
Operated by skilled practitioners dedicated to market analysis 


 
who manage integration between marketing, sales 


 
and customer service platforms


 
Standard process and key performance metrics used to 


 
continually track past initiatives


 








 

 
 



TABLE 53


 


Manage Retail Insight


Sell Insight


Sales Effectiveness


 




 




Description:
Sales Effectiveness is the ability to capture and track sales performance


 
data to identify and act upon opportunities for increased sales and 


 
retention through a customer relationship management portal. 


 
Includes the tracking of past improvement initiatives for 


 
effectiveness and efficiency.


Basic Criteria:
Sales program performance is not tracked in standardized platform


 
and information is often distributed via a paper-based channel


 
Data is collected over limited external and internal sources with


 
limited ability to access up-to-date and accurate reporting


 
No sales analytics and business models are utilized


 
No standard methodologies in place to generate a continuous


 
improvement cycle


 
No identification or prioritization capability into root cause of sales


 
program success or failure


 
Limited use of internal metrics to assess the value of improvement


 
opportunities


 
No sales standardized sales metrics aligned to CRM KPI's in place


 
to draw consistent insight from


 
No dedicated resources in place to gather sales data and provide


 
meaningful insight


 
No formal processes in place to track and measure the impact and


 
effectiveness of past improvement initiatives


Threshold Criteria:
Simplistic pre-existing analysis tools and models adapted for sales


 
performance measures and reports are distributed electronically


 
Data is collected over multiple sources and provides manual


 
reporting functions that are timely and not necessarily cost 


 
effective


 
Internal historical data is leveraged as an input into a limited sales


 
analytics and modeling process


 
Sales performance gaps identified via manual search by sales force


 
Ad hoc processes in place to identify and prioritize areas requiring


 
improvement using root cause analysis


 
Sales force recognized as a strategic asset but not actively


 
managed, developed and aligned through training and knowledge


 
sharing


 
Metrics and feedback are tracked through a basic set of CRM KPIs


 
Sales program leaders provide insight on an as needed basis to


 
implement projects from key insights and provide resources


 
Ad hoc processes and metrics in place to assess past initiatives


Above Average
Sales data analysis is collected from analytical databases that share


Criteria
a common view


 
Program performance information distributed electronically with


 
automated report generation


 
Continuous use of internal and external comparison points to assess


 
organizational performance


 
Ability to access up-to-date, aligned and accurate customer data


 
and integrate it with sales performance data


 
Traditional analytics and modeling utilized to develop program


 
business cases and predict outcomes and measure against collected


 
outcome


 
Limited analysis capability into root cause of performance gaps


 
using standard methodologies


 
Metrics contain transparent and specific CRM KPI's that easily


 
track individual program outcomes


 
Dedicated insight team in place to analyze data, predict outcomes


 
and action continuous improvement projects


 
Past improvement initiatives are tracked using inconsistent


 
approaches


Leading Criteria:
Sales performance collected and measured via a sales workbench


 
and portal that provides automated and customizable dashboard


 
reporting capabilities


 
Sales data portal integrates macroeconomic external data with


 
historical performance and advanced analytics and predictive


 
modeling (Promotion Optimization, Forecasting, Econometric


 
Modeling)


 
Dashboard aligned to customer data reporting systems to draw


 
continuous improvement processes


 
Capability to identify and drill down into root cause of


 
performance expectations and outcomes


 
Metrics contain transparent and specific CRM KPI's that easily


 
track individual program outcomes and are associated to industry


 
benchmarks to assess and promote performance


 
Skilled practitioners with a deep understanding of key levers


 
driving revenue (e.g., cross-sell/up-sell and retention programs)


 
are dedicated to market analysis who manage integration between


 
marketing, sales and customer service platforms


 
Integrated with performance management functions to align people


 
objectives with corporate goals


 
Standard process and key performance metrics used to continually


 
track past initiatives


 








 

 
 



TABLE 54


 


Manage Retail Insight


Serve Insight


Operational Insight


 




 




Description:
Operational Insight is the ability to gain insight into agent and system


 
performance affecting key operational metrics. Performance data is


 
used to identify opportunities for efficiency, growth or enhancement,


 
generate continuous process improvement and manage 


 
transformational initiatives.


Basic Criteria:
Insight reporting is often subjective and is not consistently


 
auditable


 
Operational reports are generated regularly but only reviewed,


 
distributed on an ad hoc basis


 
Manual processes required to generate integrated insight reports


 
Integrated insight reports are generated, reviewed, and distributed


 
on an ad hoc basis


 
Data from disparate call center applications is hard to access and


 
use. Reporting is difficult and customized reports are costly to


 
produce and implement


 
No formal balanced scorecard completed or generated


 
Management teams have limited view of agent arrival and


 
departure times, amount of time working and how often they make


 
themselves available


 
Data is not always accessible due to user configuration


 
Product and service outages are not planned


Threshold Criteria:
Insight reporting provides metrics but does not present an


 
evaluation of performance based on the metrics and reporting is


 
often disregarded


 
Reactive attention when poor performance becomes a priority and


 
reporting is suddenly in focus


 
Reports are generated on a regular basis on agent and customer


 
level metrics


 
Data is gathered from various call center applications using


 
numerous base package and customized reports. Data is not


 
gathered into one location making detailed analysis difficult


 
No formal balanced scorecard completed or generated to derive


 
root cause analysis


 
Ability to monitor agents in near real time for all channels


 
Product and service outages are known to be down due to planned


 
performance tuning


Above Average
Insight reporting is objective and mostly auditable for data analysis


Criteria
Reporting is generated and posted to email accounts with a view of


 
operations over a 1-2 hour interval - email accounts can fill up with


 
report messages and therefore limit the impact to the recipient


 
Data is accessible but user access configuration is not tightly


 
controlled such that agents are able to change data which should be


 
protected


 
Data is gathered from various call center applications using


 
numerous base package and customized reports. Data is manually


 
gathered into one location (e.g. spreadsheet) making some cross-


 
application analysis possible. Call center data is not married with


 
customer data, however


 
Balanced scorecard displays standard data generated to track


 
performance against KPI's which is distributed to performance


 
management teams


 
Simplistic root cause analysis models


 
Ad hoc qualification and prioritization and of potential 


 
improvement projects


 
Product and service outages are planned and are restricted to off-


 
peak hours


Leading Criteria:
Insight reporting through an integrated real-time online portal is


 
objective, comprehensive and auditable and provides a holistic


 
view of the operations capability. Audits are taken regularly to


 
check that reports are valid and reports are used to manage


 
workforce planning


 
Data is stable in the system and is sufficient for agents to do their


 
job


 
Contact center data warehouse integrates data across channels,


 
applications, and operations. A scorecard is used to display key


 
metrics. Data warehouse insight enables cross-functional


 
reporting, drill-down capabilities, and provides a single source of


 
the truth. Insight is gained across multiple dimensions (e.g., call


 
handling, quality, forecasting, etc.)


 
Predictive modeling capability is incorporated into operational


 
insight program


 
Sophisticated tools are used that produce standardized reports to


 
assess root cause analysis and to provide KPI tracking - the output


 
is provided for performance improvement programs


 
Insight leveraged to enable product and service outages to take


 
place during times that least inconvenience the customer


 








 

 
 



TABLE 55


 


Manage Retail Insight


Serve Insight


Predictive Decision Analytics


 




 




Description:
Predictive Decision Analytics is the ability to capture and track


 
customer transaction data and behavior to identify, predict and act 


 
upon opportunities for increased effectiveness and efficiencies 


 
through the integration of data, systems and business processes.


Basic Criteria:
No predictive modeling software is employed - Collection behavior


 
prediction is based on historical customer data only


 
Simple data querying and scoring mechanism are unable to create


 
differing customer treatments for differing risk profiles - retailer is


 
more reactive than proactive with collections analytics


 
No linkage with operational insight capability to collect data and


 
identify initiatives for process improvement


Threshold Criteria:
Predictive modeling is limited to basic descriptive models for


 
profiling and segmenting customer collection behavior


 
Customers are segmented by broad existing treatments used for


 
marketing purposes


 
Historical data and developed predictive data is used to develop


 
risk levels for segments


 
Segmentations and customer treatments are static and not updated


 
on a regular basis


 
Limited linkage between operational insight capability prevents


 
effective improvements to the billing, payments, and collections


 
processes


Above Average
Predictive modeling utilizes advanced statistical models that offer a


Criteria
single approach to measuring the likelihood a customer segment


 
will make payment


 
Application of various analyses to group collected data and


 
validate predictions


 
Customers are segmented into differing risk factor treatments such


 
as high, medium and low


 
Customer treatments are used to alter customer handling via


 
operational improvement programs


 
Segments are cross referenced by demographics, geography,


 
aggregated transaction data, channel usage and behavior


 
Capability linked to operational insight to directly leverage


 
payment and collection analytics for improvement programs and


 
metrics


Leading Criteria:
Predictive modeling utilizes a custom engineered software solution


 
capable of targeted, forward-looking data collection methods and


 
sophisticated statistical techniques/data mining to identify


 
segments based on detailed collection behavior


 
Model produces behavioral scoring to define actionable individual


 
treatments (e.g. based on the customer's likelihood of payment)


 
and is cross referenced with customer's lifetime value


 
Treatments are validated continually using repeatable processes


 
and scoring


 
Analytics knowledge is retained to perform continual model checks


 
based on predicted and actual outcomes


 
Analytics used to understand concept of differentiated customer


 
treatment are applied consistently through operational


 
improvements


 
Operational insight linkage is more focused on forward-looking


 
models and analysis. Predictive analytics are used to build


 
business cases for prioritizing and tracking improvement efforts


 
and assigning resources


 





The following Tables 56-57 provide an explanation of the capabilities and corresponding key assessment areas and performance capability criteria for each capability within the customer advocacy platform 114.



 

 
 



TABLE 56


 


Customer Advocacy


Complaint Management


 




 




Description:
Complaint Management provides resolution to escalated customer


 
complaints or issues with the retail utility, investigates root causes and


 
addresses any gaps in processes that impact the customer. Includes


 
trend analysis and analytics to prevent complaints before they occur.


Basic Criteria:
Poor customer service is usually followed by written complaints to


 
management


 
No complaint process exists - handled on an ad hoc basis


 
depending on complaint type


 
Elementary historical tracking system


 
Complaint data collected only when there is a special circumstance


 
that is going to cause customer dissatisfaction


 
No involvement by those responsible for policy change


 
No coaching or accountability


 
Ad hoc feedback to improve process


Threshold Criteria:
Escalation process follows organization's hierarchy


 
Poor customer service is escalated when appropriate and customer


 
is pacified by appropriate team


 
Customers with unjustified complaints (e.g. did not pay bill on time


 
and dispute late payment charge) escalate through hierarchy


 
wasting precious time throughout the organization


 
Multiple touch-points for the customer


 
Unable to post alerts to all agents


 
Data is collected and distributed at a summary level to management


 
Process in place for handling calls, no process for additional


 
communication vehicles


 
Manual tracking system for escalated issues and rudimentary log of


 
summary information


Above Average
Focus at supervisor level - given time and ability to investigate the


Criteria
issues


 
Standard definition of complaint is consistently understood across


 
operations


 
Clearly communicated and defined complaint management


 
escalation process


 
Minimal touch points for the customer


 
Front line employees can enter complaints right into the customer


 
information system


 
Ability to issue alerts to all agents


 
Coaching occurs but it is first thing to go when there are service


 
level concerns


 
Tracking escalated issues on a monthly basis


 
Pulling customer care system and escalated issues together and


 
sharing with the retailer and key business stakeholders


 
Data extracted from CS system for trends analysis. Trends are


 
identified and appropriate approach identified and implemented


 
Exporting data and collecting the data from customer care system


Leading Criteria:
Specialized team responsible for handling escalated issues


 
measured on issue resolution not average handle times


 
Past trends are proactively anticipated (e.g. approaching high bill


 
season)


 
All customer service personnel are able to enter a complaint from a


 
customer


 
Ability to issue near real time and proactive alerts to all agents via


 
multiple channels


 
Coaching is a priority activity and opportunities are identified and


 
fed back to responsible parties


 
Internal quality team that meet monthly with Customer Advocate


 
to discuss and identify opportunities for innovation and process


 
improvements based on escalated and front line complaint issues


 
Applying Operational Excellence methodology


 








 

 
 



TABLE 57


 


Customer Advocacy


Customer Recovery


 




 




Description:
Customer Recovery helps to restore the customer relationship when


 
there has been dissatisfaction. The approach to recovery is determined


 
based on the significance of the impact to the customer.


Basic Criteria:
No defined recovery strategy/plan


 
Recovery done on an ad hoc basis resulting in an inconsistent


 
customer experience


 
No insight into or consideration for customer needs


Threshold Criteria:
Defined criteria and recovery triggers


 
Packaged recovery options however efforts do not necessarily


 
resonate with the customer


 
Customer complaints are responded to with compensatory gestures


 
such as gifts or one-off credits


Above Average
Recovery efforts are supported by all levels or the business, at the


Criteria
customer service level only


 
Gain insight into customer needs by engaging customers through focus 


 
groups, to find out what their needs are when there has been


 
an issue or customer dissatisfaction


 
Monitor social networking sites to glean customer information


 
which is compiled in customer insights


Leading Criteria:
Well-defined recovery strategy and triggers


 
Recovery triggers and efforts are reviewed on a regular basis to


 
keep up with customer expectations


 
Incidents resulting in a trigger of customer recovery are analyzed,


 
root cause identified, and results integrated into planning,


 
coaching, policy or system changes


 
Recovery plan is accessible and implemented by everyone in


 
customer care with customer touch points including field


 
representatives


 
Customers are awarded compensation for very poor customer


 
service regardless of whether they have raised a complaint


 
Graduated variations in response are executed based on the severity


 
of the customer complaint and the customer type


 
Differing customer segments receive differing treatment


 
Full understanding and line of sight with all stakeholders as to the


 
triggers, their meanings and the purpose of the recovery plan


 





The following Table 58 provides an explanation of the capabilities and corresponding key assessment areas and performance capability criteria for each capability within the monitor performance platform 116.



 

 
 



TABLE 58


 


Monitor Performance


Service Performance


 




 




Description:
Service Performance provides a balanced and holistic view of retail


 
operation performance. This includes a balanced scorecard containing 


 
service metrics, key performance indicators and benchmarks 


 
for industry comparison and analysis of future expectations.


Basic Criteria:
No performance dashboard in place to monitor performance -


 
Service Performance is measured using operational reports.


 
Individual results are manually reviewed in isolation


 
Performance measurement is conducted by assigned managers and


 
functional areas and is not coordinated through a central conduit


 
No formalized processes for ensuring that data gathered is


 
complete, accurate or is collected in a timely fashion


 
Regular reporting of service metrics is not conducted


 
No standard metric calculations available


 
No root cause analysis available


Threshold Criteria:
Formal performance dashboard is not in place - Service


 
Performance is measured using a standardized annual tool to report


 
on the strategic metrics identified by the strategic plan and


 
regulators


 
Performance metrics are gathered annually by a dedicated team


 
within business planning operations who act as a central point of


 
contact


 
Standardized processes for data collection to help ensure data


 
completeness and accuracy - timeliness of collections is not usually


 
measured


 
Reporting of performance is conducted annually as part of the


 
annual business planning and budget cycle


 
Performance data is used as an input into future planning and


 
process improvements


 
Root cause analysis is undertaken on a reactive basis. No forward


 
looking analysis available


Above Average
Performance dashboard in place that measures a balanced


Criteria
scorecard of metrics. Metrics are aligned to corporate and strategic


 
objectives


 
Dashboard results are posted for all employees to view


 
Dedicated performance team in place to develop a standard process


 
for reporting. Accuracy and completeness of metrics is checked on


 
a bi-annual basis and adjustments are made to correct deficiencies


 
in reporting


 
Reporting of metrics occurs on an as needed basis to the required


 
stakeholders


 
Dedicated team provides subject matter expertise during the annual


 
planning cycle regarding the reviewing and defining of


 
performance level targets


 
Performance data is analyzed using non-standardized processes on


 
a case-by case basis. Issues for resolution are generally flagged by


 
line managers with performance metrics used as supporting data


 
Predictive analysis is conducted only when requested on an ad-hoc


 
basis


Leading Criteria:
Graphical user interface for performance dashboard aligned to


 
strategic objectives. Provides a holistic, balanced scorecard of


 
operational performance, customer experience and continuous


 
improvement measures and includes comparative industry


 
benchmarks


 
Online, real-time dashboard that is accessible by all parties and


 
stakeholders


 
Dedicated team in place within operational responsibility


 
consistent and objective measurement of operational performance.


 
Team ensures timeliness, completeness and accuracy of service


 
metrics on an ongoing basis


 
Dedicated team provides insight into how to optimize performance


 
and provides ongoing standardized reporting on trends and


 
analyses for key stakeholder groups


 
Standardized processes and audits in place to track service


 
performance data collection from managers and operational units


 
Performance data is analyzed for root cause identification and


 
issues are escalated using a standard process to drive resolution and


 
operational excellence


 
Predictive analysis integrated with business process


 





The following Table 59 provides an explanation of the capabilities and corresponding key assessment areas and performance capability criteria for each capability within the manage compliance platform 118.



 

 
 



TABLE 59


 


Manage Compliance


Risk and Controls Management


 




 




Description:
Risk and Controls Management provides a system of processes and


 
controls to manage the security of customer information, financial


 
information, compliance with laws and regulations, public relations 


 
and the delivery of effective internal operational controls to support 


 
the achievement of the overall business objectives.


Basic Criteria:
No standard compliance process in place for the entire operation.


 
Differing business units exercise latitude over solutions creating a


 
patchwork approach


 
Manual internal controls and audit reporting tool for management


 
teams


 
Reporting is not standardized and notification procedures often fail


 
to report in a timely manner. Reporting functionality provides little


 
insight into the effectiveness of the compliance program


 
Audit process is not integrated with the compliance program and


 
often provides inconsistent results causing backlogs in the annual


 
audit process adding undue expense and operational costs


 
No disaster recovery plan in place


 
Security solution is not updated on a regular basis and presents a


 
recognizable threat to the storage of customer data and high value


 
information flows


 
Processes are unable to actively address changes to the regulatory


 
and legal environment creating isolated solutions that are not


 
integrated with current systems


 
No dedicated risk control team in place


Threshold Criteria:
Compliance program in place that provides a common platform to


 
manage the various programs implemented by differing business


 
units


 
Electronic (e.g. spreadsheets) internal controls and audit reporting


 
tool for management teams


 
Biannual process of reporting on operating effectiveness, timely


 
notification of control failures and monitoring of compliance with


 
utility regulations with no data analysis


 
Audit process is formally tied to the compliance program but is


 
carried out using differing processes and reporting systems. The


 
system identifies failures, however response through the


 
compliance program is not timely or inconsistently applied


 
Ad hoc approach to disaster recovery


 
Security solution is up-to-date with current technology and


 
provides the minimally required level of protection against data


 
threats but is difficult to upgrade consistently


 
Non-standard process to managing legal and regulatory change


 
creates integration issues and inefficient processes


 
Ad hoc deployment of individual on an as needed basis to the risk


 
and control team


Above Average
A standardized compliance program is in place for reporting and


Criteria
production of pertinent communications throughout the various


 
business units


 
Online internal controls and audit reporting tool for management


 
teams


 
Monthly & biannual process of reporting on operating 


 
effectiveness, timely notification of control failures and monitoring


 
of compliance with utility regulations with limited data analysis


 
Comprehensive audit process in place to meet current reporting


 
standards in a given jurisdiction. Failures of compliance are


 
identifiable but create operational expenses to fully understand and


 
mitigate


 
Disaster recovery plans are rolled into wider corporate plans


 
Security solution is up-to-date with current technology offerings


 
but is not deployed consistently


 
Processes actively manage legal and regulatory change but do so in


 
a reactive manner


 
Leads of differing functional areas support the implementation of


 
the risk and controls program


Leading Criteria:
Standardized and collaborative compliance program that provides


 
the necessary information reporting and regular communications


 
reporting through a single point of contact


 
Online and user friendly internal controls and audit reporting tool


 
for management teams


 
Monthly process of reporting on operating effectiveness, timely


 
notification of control failures and monitoring of compliance with


 
utility regulations with full data analysis


 
Integrated audit process exceeds current regulatory standards and


 
minimizes operational impact


 
Significant changes to or failures of key controls are easily


 
identified and data and supporting documents are provided to


 
auditors on a timely basis


 
Dedicated disaster recovery and business continuity process in


 
place that is updated annually


 
End-to-end standardized risk mitigation processes for managing the


 
security of customer information from collection to disposal


 
Theprocesses proactively address any changes to legal or


 
regulatory requirements prior to enactment


 
Dedicated team in place to support and facilitate risk and control


 
program


 





The following Tables 60-68 provide an explanation of the capabilities and corresponding key assessment areas and performance capability criteria for each capability within the manage quality and performance platform 120.



 

 
 



TABLE 60


 


Manage Quality and Performance


Workforce Planning


 




 




Description:
Workforce Planning manages the organizational structure for customer


 
service and operations, scheduling of workload and reporting. This


 
capability includes having systems and processes in place to give


 
structure and logic to staffing and correlated budgets.


Basic Criteria:
No assurance that an agent is available to answer a query within a


 
reasonable time period when a customer contacts the utility - no


 
capturing or measuring occupancy


 
Inbound calls/letters/faxes are assigned and processed according to


 
agent availability, not according to agent skills - no consistency


 
Agents work in silos and are unable to transfer customer calls to


 
different teams/locations


 
Volume of work subject to peaks and troughs according to


 
season/day/time due to lack of planning


 
Service level agreements not clearly defined/defined or not met -


 
no forecasting or hard targets


 
Management teams have little/no view of agent arrival and


 
departure times, amount of time working, and how often they make


 
themselves available


 
Staff schedules are created with unsophisticated tools and minimal


 
forecasting is used to help predict call volume and ideal staffing


 
Reactive and ad hoc approach to managing key performance areas.


 
No formal plans exist


 
Contact Centre actual performance results adjusted retroactively to


 
accommodate poor planning


 
Team and/or centre-level statistics are available on an occasional


 
basis


Threshold Criteria:
Agents are available to answer inbound calls within an SLA but no


 
assurance that the agent assigned a call has the relevant skills to


 
handle the query


 
Defined telephone service factor target to staff accordingly


 
Agents work in silos and often transfer customer calls to different


 
teams/locations


 
Contingency plan in place for peaks and troughs of work volume


 
Service level agreements are defined for a given team and tracked


 
Supervisors have a view of agent arrival, departure, and working


 
times


 
Formal utilization of staff forecasting and scheduling tool


 
integrates functions of scheduling and forecasting of call volumes.


 
Defined management accountability for teams/business functions


 
Agent occupancy is a key business metric for under or over


 
utilization and setting targets


 
Some mechanisms of reviewing trends and forecasting are utilized


 
but rely on spreadsheets and manual processes that are prone to


 
errors


 
Service level action plan exists but escalation levels not clearly


 
understood. Escalation approach initiated inconsistently


 
Team and centre-level statistics are available on a periodic basis


Above Average
Appropriate agents are available to answer inbound calls within an


Criteria
SLA


 
Service level agreements are defined. Accuracy of consistently


 
hitting the telephone service factor is tracked and managed


 
Inbound contact is assigned to the appropriate team, but first call


 
resolution is not assured


 
Mostly reactive team management to handle peaks and troughs


 
Clearly defined areas of management accountability at a process


 
and team level


 
Effective in defining targets and tracking gaps effectively and


 
holding accountability


 
Supervisors are able to view agent performance statistics using a


 
real-time adherence tool. When statistics indicate a problem,


 
supervisors approach agents on an individual basis for assistance


 
Staff forecasting and scheduling function is utilizing enhanced


 
features such as real-time adherence and advanced capabilities to


 
support skills-based routing.


 
Automated analysis and how historical data is captured and


 
projected outwards - a number of tools and spreadsheets in place


 
Individual, team, and centre-level statistics are regularly available


 
Service level action plan clearly understood


Leading Criteria:
A suitable agent is available and able to handle work/calls assigned


 
to them within an SLA. Achieves the target average handle time


 
while balancing other factors like occupancy


 
Effective at staying within a close margin (i.e. 2%) of targets


 
Inbound contact is assigned to the appropriate team/agent


 
according to customer segment, customer request and agent skills


 
Dedicated group performs scheduling, compiles performance


 
metrics, reports and daily workload balancing with call blending


 
Supervisors are able to view agent performance statistics using a


 
real-time adherence tool. When statistics indicate a problem,


 
supervisors approach agents on an individual basis for assistance.


 
Staff forecasting and scheduling tool integrates all media types into


 
work consideration from calls, email, chat, and fax. Staff


 
forecasting evolution towards front and back-office blending


 
Proactive smoothing of high volume, seasonal and proactive work


 
across various locations


 
Individual, team, and centre-level statistics are available in near


 
real time (i.e. utilizing a quality and performance management


 
dashboard tool)


 
Service level action plan regularly reviewed and effectiveness


 
evaluated


 








 

 
 



TABLE 61


 


Manage Quality and Performance


Onboarding


 




 




Description:
Onboarding includes processes to recruit, retain and provide new joiners 


 
with a sense of the corporate culture and the opportunity to experience


 
what the retail utility stands for, its background, business drivers and


 
strategic objectives as well as its mission, vision and core values. In


 
doing so this capability ensures engagement and retention at the outset


 
of the utility's relationship with employees.


Basic Criteria:
No recruitment strategy, very basic recruitment techniques with


 
minimal screening


 
No strategy or agenda for onboarding program, focused on basic


 
overview and compliance. Operationally based and policy driven,


 
and does not set corporate context


 
Generic program with no customization


 
New employee experience is inconsistent. New joiners receive


 
minimal training (2-3 days) and some are not given the same


 
content about company core values


 
Subject matter experts (SMEs) are trainers, do not draw on people


 
from the operations


 
Static, one-way PowerPoint style delivery with no interactive


 
components


 
No “Welcome Day” (need description/explanation)


Threshold Criteria: 
Reactive recruitment - manual screening


 
Meets basic HR needs/information


 
Majority of training delivered by a trainer including key messages


 
Training includes manuals and basic trainer knowledge


 
Some PowerPoint and material delivered by managers


 
Basic orientation given


Above Average
Web-based application recruitment tools, supported by telephone


Criteria
fit interviews


 
Larger scope - focus on creating a sense of belonging and increase


 
engagement through customized information to functional areas


 
Diverse training methods


 
Discussion about how employees fit into corporate structure and


 
relationships


 
Key people from the operations delivering key messaging rather


 
than done by a trainer


 
Interaction that is applied to the methodology


 
PowerPoint and videos are placed strategically throughout for key


 
messaging - play learning games, giving real-life examples and


 
goal based learning


 
More in-depth orientation including presentations by managers


Leading Criteria:
State of the art on-boarding process including behavioral profiling,


 
web based application/IVR response


 
Senior executives delivering material in person rather than via a


 
video


 
Program has a high profile in the company


 
Instills core values and more information on where you fit in the


 
bigger picture - grounding this and re-visiting key messages/points


 
Career progression messages, where appropriate, are delivered in


 
person by a SME from senior management and not a trainer


 
eLearning tools - use technology for interaction/simulation and


 
video conferencing to bring in key people to speak/train


 
Importance put on who is delivering material as well as opposed to


 
the material itself


 
Focus on trainers who are passionate about the messages they are


 
delivering


 
Comprehensive orientation including presentations by managers


 
and senior executives.


 








 

 
 



TABLE 62


 


Manage Quality and Performance


Training


 




 




Description:
Training provides a blended learning approach that trains employees on


 
processes and associated business rules focusing on what the employee


 
needs to know and where to find it. This capability places a high focus


 
on where to find answers using online tools.


Basic Criteria:
Training carried out on a need-to-know basis


 
All training is instructor led with minimal hands on practice


 
Overuse of eLearning with minimal Instructor lead or support


 
Learning Specialists/training associates provide training rather than


 
experts with operational experience


Threshold Criteria:
Generic training - no flexibility for segments or individual/team


 
skill sets


 
Utilize a training environment with pre-developed exercises


 
relevant to the learning material


 
Online assessments for testing


 
Blended learning approach - instructor led and eLearning - includes


 
exercises, role-plays, review activities and questioning techniques


 
Subject matter experts deliver training with Learning team


 
providing content but minimal direction or contact from Learning


 
Specialist


Above Average
Instructor led classroom training blended with eLearning


Criteria
simulations and assessments that are customized to support


 
different functional areas


 
Demonstrations, interactive learning and testing throughout to


 
measure proficiency


 
After the initial training is complete, continuous learning or


 
refresher training is delivered via eLearning modules with a pre-


 
and post-assessment to measure employee proficiency


 
Training debrief sessions after training is completed to evaluate


 
and apply continuous improvements to training methodologies


 
Includes games, activities, listening sessions and demonstrations


 
Subject matter experts deliver training and learning team


 
providing thorough speaking notes and train the trainer overview


Leading Criteria:
Training includes technical skills, cultural awareness, industry


 
insight and business effectiveness


 
Training is tailored to individual/team skill set - regular refresher


 
courses available - participation is tracked against performance


 
Virtual learning is in place for all material and eLearning


 
customized to workforce specific needs


 
Increased observations and live assessments such as practicums


 
and “nesting.” Nesting is a continuation of the training


 
environment where the agents have moved from formalized


 
classroom training to a “live environment” on the call centre floor.


 
The reps receive first hand support from their trainer as they begin


 
to take live calls


 
Ensure Train-the-Trainer capabilities are met, thorough speaking


 
notes, consistent training methodologies by ensuring knowledge


 
transfer


 
Learning Specialists provide support and coaching throughout


 
delivery to ensure Trainer expectations are met


 








 

 
 



TABLE 63


 


Manage Quality and Performance


Quality Management


 




 




Description:
Quality Management evaluates interactions between customers and the


 
retail utility's employees and ensures documented best practice and


 
processes are followed thus enabling effective coaching and higher


 
quality customer interactions.


Basic Criteria:
No structure or consistency


 
No sharing of best practices and limited accountability


 
Reactive based feedback - information gathered only if there is a


 
complaint or an internal error is found


 
No remote voice or screen capture capability


 
Supervisors are able to listen in on live calls and can review agent


 
behavior to assess customer interaction performance. Call


 
recording is not enabled


 
Managers observe employees without clearly defined expectations


 
No defined process or regular scoring


 
No defined behaviors/transactions resulting in subjective


 
measurement


 
Inconsistent feedback and coaching


Threshold Criteria:
Basic audits from random samples done on a reactive basis


 
following basic policy and procedures.


 
Inconsistent approach which may only take place with new staff


 
Voice capture methodology is in place where customer/agent


 
interaction is audited for individual coaching purposes


 
Supervisors are able to listen in on calls and can review agent


 
behavior to assess customer interaction performance. Limited


 
voice recording is done at random throughout the month for each


 
agent with screen capture.


 
Audit based on end result of transaction. Internally focused


 
without taking the customer into account


 
Very basic measurement occurs with no view to process results


Above Average
Defined quality assurance program in place with detailed scoring


Criteria
rationale, calibration process, revision process and audit process


 
Program used as a compliance and performance tool


 
Voice and screen capture capability sampling both sides of the


 
conversation/transaction and scoring to the criteria with both sides


 
of the relationship in mind to ensure process procedures are


 
followed


 
Proactive based on random samples taken from a quality system


 
that is capturing employee activity


 
Supervisors are able to listen in on calls and can review agent


 
behavior to assess customer interaction performance. Reasonable


 
sample of calls recorded with screen capture per month.


 
Weighted evaluations are created (soft skills, procedures and


 
resolution are measured) and measurement is used to gauge


 
performance


 
Defined expectations creating accountability


Leading Criteria:
The quality program is calibrated with customer expectations


 
consistently and at a regular frequency


 
Quality auditing and calibration in place. Analysis and trending is


 
employed to improve results


 
Customer comments are leveraged to improve agent performance


 
as well as enhance upstream processes - increases accountability


 
Clearly defined process to follow, intertwined with knowledge


 
management and coaching


 
Customer reviews are posted such that they may be shared with


 
other customers and employees


 
Interactive and immediate feedback


 
Quality measures are extended beyond the call centre and applied


 
to the back office. Internal and external measurement tools in


 
place


 
Supervisors listening sessions are used to coach to results and most


 
pertinent data is provided in a timely manner. Large sample of


 
calls recorded with screen capture monthly


 
Information gathered is used for one-on-one coaching, process


 
changes and to ensure process procedures are followed and are


 
effective. This solidifies processes and uncovers best practices


 
Quality management team is the key input provider in identifying


 
best practices and performing root cause analysis


 








 

 
 



TABLE 64


 


Manage Quality and Performance


Knowledge Management


 




 




Description:
Knowledge Management ensures that there is system and process


 
information available to each employee at the right time, in the right


 
way that is specific to each job function. This capability includes


 
process and policy documentation, support of knowledge transfer and


 
the provision of training materials.


Basic Criteria:
No active strategy for knowledge management or knowledge


 
exchange, this exists between teams on an informal basis -


 
knowledge is only shared between segments or functions


 
Inconsistencies in how business processes and procedures are followed


 
Hard copy training or reference manual explaining steps of the


 
process


 
Information is available but no proven way to determine how


 
efficient it is


 
Online PDF manuals documenting process mapping for main


 
business processes


 
Knowledge Management tools exist but are not utilized in training.


 
Limited use of the tools due to lack of trust. Individuals create own


 
work-arounds


 
Knowledge Management application lacks intuitive user interface


 
and basic search capabilities


 
Online business reference manuals with basic search capability


Threshold Criteria:
Knowledge sharing is encouraged but there is no formal provision


 
in the work day for this activity


 
Awareness of pre-defined policy and procedures and these are


 
followed according to volume of work - Knowledge Management


 
tool is referenced


 
Transactions are carried out in multiple ways, even though job aids


 
attempt to discourage this. Job aids are not effective for experienced 


 
members of staff


 
Online information in PDF format reference manual, explains step by 


 
step with basic search tool


 
Online mapping with related linked documents for main business


 
processes


 
Some reference to the tool but not directly using the tool for


 
training delivery


 
KM Application is easy to use and find information relevant to a


 
inbound call or back-office transaction


 
Key words identified in search capability for easier access to online


 
learning material


 
Some means of capturing usage patterns of tool and some reporting


Above Average
Knowledge management or exchange strategy is in place but lacks


Criteria
clarity or system/application support


 
Awarenessof pre-defined policy and procedures are easily


 
accessible to via their desktop


 
Policies meet regulatory and accountability requirements


 
Consistency between employees in performing transactions


 
Visual end-to-end business process flows with supporting


 
documentation linked to each flow


 
Online mapping and link to related data and documentation


 
All training material housed in knowledge management tool and it


 
is used for classroom delivery


 
KM Application is robust, either leverages directly or integrates


 
with existing Web Self-Service FAQ and is calibrated to drive


 
efficiency during each interaction. CTI integration allows for


 
screen pops that drive specific KM content to be displayed for


 
specific call/interaction types


 
Consolidated indexes for all employees to search


 
Driving adoption through coaching and direct link to performance


 
management


Leading Criteria:
Knowledge management or exchange strategy is in place and is


 
supported by a dedicated knowledge management


 
system/application and team


 
Knowledge management materials are consolidated and indexed so


 
that they may be easily accessed and searched by all employees.


 
All materials are available within three clicks online with linked


 
mapping


 
Adherence to process and policy requirements - standardized


 
policies and processes


 
Job aids specific to each functional area as well as end-to-end


 
process function


 
eLearning knowledge management tool drives self-paced training


 
and computer and self-based training that is customized to each


 
individual


 
Understand fully the business impacts of knowledge inconsistencies


 
KM Application is maintained and supported by one group, driven


 
by sophisticated natural language query, and “Smart” learning


 
capabilities


 
Continued investment in ongoing new service/product and


 
“refresher” training


 
A Google type search engine with “did you mean” capability


 
Robust understanding of usage - reporting that shows each click,


 
analysis of site and directs changes to site


 








 

 
 



TABLE 65


 


Manage Quality and Performance


Coaching


 




 




Description:
Coaching delivers improved employee performance and increased


 
efficiencies by communicating, demonstrating and reinforcing best


 
practices. This capability constantly drives improvements by engaging


 
employees, building relationships, creating a two-way feedback forum,


 
and by tailoring practices based on procedural findings.


Basic Criteria:
No technology supporting coaching


 
No real-time or regularly scheduled coaching. Employees are only


 
reactively coached when there is a problem


 
Manager posts performance statistics once per month and agents


 
are required to seek them out to determine relative performance


 
Coaching takes the form of ad hoc meetings that do not happen on


 
a regular basis. Only problem areas are reviewed and proactive


 
developmental areas are not addressed


 
Manager must gather performance and quality information and


 
manually log into the system


Threshold Criteria: 
Monthly coaching provided by manager


 
No real-time coaching


 
Reactive follow-up with no focus on employee development


 
Inconsistent coaching methodologies. Basic areas are reviewed but


 
using inconsistent methodologies.


 
Some peer-coaching is supported


Above Average
Quality and Performance Management (QPM) tools are employed.


Criteria
Employees can access their own statistics online and determine


 
relative performance


 
Coach initiates sessions and discusses improvement plans with


 
agents


 
Templated and consistent feedback for each performance measure


 
and for sharing best practices


Leading Criteria:
Individual, team, and center-level performance statistics available


 
to agents on a real-time basis


 
Agents have access to the reporting tool and have the knowledge to


 
understand how to attain and surpass the expectations on a near


 
real-time basis


 
Online coaching forms completed prior to going into coaching


 
sessions - employee initiated direction and actions


 
Training provided on how to drive own performance, plans and


 
commitments


 
Career coaching component is integrated into the process


 
Involves video or live-monitor coaching sessions to give coaches


 
feedback on the sessions


 
Formal program to train coaches, managers and peer coaches to


 
ensure consistency and effectiveness in approach


 








 

 
 



TABLE 66


 


Manage Quality and Performance


Performance Management


 




 




Description:
Performance Management creates a high performance culture that


 
actively supports employee development, continuously improves


 
performance, and rewards measurable results. This capability supports


 
the timely, cost-effective delivery of high quality services by motivating


 
staff and placing and retaining the best people in the most appropriate


 
roles.


Basic Criteria:
Performance feedback is reactive and generally negative, usually


 
delivered by supervisor and based on subjective assessments by


 
colleagues and supervisors


 
Performance appraisal system is aligned with annual HR-managed


 
pay reviews, as opposed to being part of an ongoing process


 
The performance management system is inflexible and outcomes


 
rarely reflect true performance which tends to not be motivational


 
Supervisors are not accountable for individual agent performance


 
and satisfaction


 
Training programs are unstructured and reactive to work errors,


 
rather than performance objectives - annual coaching


 
No career path or succession planning


 
Ad hoc recognition with no structured program in place


Threshold Criteria: 
Performance feedback is proactive but often overlooked and


 
presented in quantitative terms


 
Performance appraisal system is aligned with annual HR-managed


 
pay reviews - bonus payout is based on a very subjective ranking


 
process


 
The performance management system is inflexible but mostly


 
effective. Feedback style is not controlled/censored/relevant


 
On-the-job performance management training


 
No documentation of performance throughout the year


 
Succession planning tracking through spreadsheets


 
Recognition and performance is encouraged at the management


 
level


Above Average
Proactive performance feedback provided by supervisor in a


Criteria
controlled feedback style


 
Ongoing performance management system including proper


 
performance documentation throughout the year


 
Annual process based on objective criteria for ranking. Not based


 
on just a conversation but an objective calculation that determines


 
threshold of payout


 
Annual bonus process is attractive and helps recruit high-quality


 
staff


 
Monthly bonus payout


 
Monthly performance coaching


 
Training programs are structured towards career progression and


 
training targets are set at an individual level


 
Rigorous succession planning process linked to Workforce


 
Planning and to HR. Proactive approach including the use of


 
career counselors


 
Recognition and performance is encouraged at all levels through


 
formal and informal processes


Leading Criteria:
Performance feedback provided by supervisors and customers (via


 
surveys). Near real-time online performance feedback enables near


 
real-time coaching


 
Consistency with regards to set objectives based on role function.


 
Rewards and assessment criteria are clearly understood and


 
allocated and contributions are identified and recognized


 
Performance appraisal system is ongoing with quantitative and


 
qualitative assessments, culminating in an annual review -


 
Leadership surveys and 360 reviews factored into annual reviews


 
The performance management system is appropriate for purpose


 
and efficient to manage and implement


 
Supervisors are accountable for their team's performance, trained


 
to assess performance, give constructive feedback and to determine


 
the root causes of quality and metric issues


 
Effective succession planning program in place to identify and


 
address skill gaps


 
Recognition and performance is encouraged at all levels and


 
automated tools are available to all


 








 

 
 



TABLE 67


 


Manage Quality and Performance


People Development


 




 




Description:
People Development develops and empowers employees by providing


 
access to resources and training opportunities to acquire the skills


 
required for both themselves and the operations to achieve maximum


 
potential.


Basic Criteria:
No job rotation program. Cross training of employees occurs only


 
when there is a need to back-fill for vacation or attrition (reactive


 
approach)


 
No structured mentoring program. Mentoring relationships may form


 
naturally however is usually with own manager


 
No educational programs for business/operation knowledge


 
development


 
No structure or plan for succession or targeted job related learning


Threshold Criteria:
Proactive approach with regards to training to back-fill for absences


 
Mentoring relationships are encouraged however no structured


 
program exists. Time spent mentoring is on an ad hoc basis


 
Educational programs exist in the form of “lunch and learns” which


 
are not necessarily business relevant. These sessions are often held


 
on an ad hoc basis with no set objectives


 
Manager directed development based on performance meetings.


 
Very basic level based on employee interests and showing the


 
employee how to further gather information


Above Average
Job rotation and cross-training occurs within employees' own


Criteria
department Proactive approach based on absences


 
Structured mentoring program at the employee level. Formal


 
matching of relationship occurs with individuals outside of direct


 
manager but within home department. Additional mentoring


 
program for future/potential leaders


 
Educational programs in the form of “lunch and learns” and formal


 
communications Business relevant and based on predetermined


 
objectives. Reactive based on needs


 
Online resources and tools available for personal (job related)


 
development - e.g. “lunch and learns”


 
Personal development efforts are directly tied to succession planning


Leading Criteria:
Proactive approach to job rotation and cross-training - based on


 
needs analysis with regards to absences and business needs


 
Job rotation and cross-training occurs within own department and


 
across other departments


 
Cross-training programs in place for the purposes of succession


 
planning and personal development


 
Structured mentoring program at both the employee and manager


 
level. Formal matching of relationship across company (may occur


 
across borders). Peer buddy program in place for new joiners


 
Educational programs exist in various delivery forms (e.g., self study, 


 
lunch and learns, electronic self assessment) based on the needs 


 
and strategic objectives of both the utility and the business -


 
proactive approach, themes determined annually


 
Educational programs are supported by management and


 
operations - corporate wide visibility and participation (where


 
applicable)


 
Personal development embedded in performance process.


 
Employee initiated plan - tools, resources and career counselors available


 








 

 
 



TABLE 68


 


Manage Quality and Performance


People Advocacy


 




 




Description:
People Advocacy creates an engaged workforce that is empowered,


 
challenged and motivated to collectively achieve maximum potential on


 
an individual and team basis by deploying an integrated proactive and


 
comprehensive program to encourage and transform the culture.


Basic Criteria:
No communication strategy and unstructured and reactive


 
communications


 
Ad hoc leadership courses offered on a reactive basis with no


 
consistency


 
No leadership program curriculum


 
Rewards and recognition given on an ad hoc basis. No structured


 
rewards or consistency in recognition practices


 
Employee engagement strategy is based around social events


 
No specific change management plan, process or strategy in place -


 
reactive approach


Threshold Criteria:
Basic communication strategy with various unproven


 
communication vehicles


 
Basic leadership courses/training offered for managers only. No


 
customization of leadership training to meet specific needs and no


 
assurance that learned leadership skills are transferable into the


 
workplace


 
Some predetermined criteria for recognition however no


 
consistency with regards to rewards or across departments


 
Each department has their own strategy and approach to employee


 
engagement. No consistency or focused attention


 
Change management efforts exist for some projects with no


 
dedicated effort or consistency. Once a project is completed the


 
change management stops


Above Average
Tested and proven communication vehicles (two-way and audience


Criteria
specific)


 
Concrete communication strategy and processes with proactive


 
communications that are consistent and professional with an


 
identifiable brand


 
Leadership development needs analysis completed with specific


 
training offered based on identified needs. Accountability to


 
ensure leadership skills are practiced and transferred into the


 
workplace


 
Reactive succession planning


 
Structured rewards & recognition program based on needs analysis


 
Heavily administrative - fair, meaningful and consistent


 
recognition predetermined goals/behaviors


 
Well-defined employee engagement strategy customized based on


 
high level corporate strategy and employee feedback versus not


 
functional level specific. Management are held accountable for


 
employee engagement


 
A basic change management strategy in place for all projects


 
and/or changes. Mainly reactive efforts


Leading Criteria:
Online communication portal which archives communications and


 
fosters two-way communication


 
Well-defined leadership program curriculum. Diversified training


 
vehicles and online resource portal and links to performance


 
management and leadership surveys


 
Customized Leadership Program to identify and develop future


 
leaders and an effective succession planning process linked to


 
career development


 
A structured, online program that enables individual customization


 
of rewards with minimal administration


 
Tracking and submission of nominations for external prestigious


 
business awards


 
Departmental engagement strategies are aligned with corporate


 
engagement strategies and objectives


 
A proactive, customized approach to employee engagement that is


 
functional and departmental specific


 
Embedded change management plan and strategy. All


 
projects/efforts required change management plans


 





The following Tables 69-71 provide an explanation of the capabilities and corresponding key assessment areas and performance capability criteria for each capability within the manage third party interaction platform 122.



 

 
 



TABLE 69


 


Manage Third Party Interaction


Vendor Management


 




 




Description:
Vendor Management is the use of a third party in the retail back office


 
(e.g. outsourced services or third party meter read operators). This


 
capability includes the structure of interaction with a third party


 
specifically pertaining to the contract roles and responsibilities, training,


 
workforce management, service levels and retailer interaction.


Basic Criteria:
Prospective vendors and third parties are not fully investigated and


 
impact of the agreement is not fully realized prior to contractual


 
commitment


 
Service provider required to handle a varying volume of work in an


 
unstructured manner (e.g. call centre handling over flow during


 
peak call times)


 
Limited induction training


 
Limited or no data sharing takes place. If so, data is transferred via


 
email and spreadsheet on an ad hoc basis


 
No formal data sharing mechanism in place


 
Service provider has no concept of required customer experience


 
No contingency plans are in place for vendors


 
No periodic review of vendors is conducted


Threshold Criteria:
Vendor and third party opportunities are created as a reaction to


 
offers rather than through proactive initiatives


 
Service provider and retailer in a mutually beneficial collaborative


 
manner


 
Limited or no data sharing (e.g. data is transferred via email and


 
spreadsheet on an ad hoc basis)


 
Simplistic contingency plans in place for vendor relationships


 
All third parties and retailer have common goals however these are


 
not necessarily tracked


 
Communication between retailer and third parties is formal but


 
lacks quality and rigor and therefore compromises the focus on


 
contractual commitments


 
Ad hoc review of vendors to measure realized value


Above Average
Vendors and third parties are sought/investigated in response to a


Criteria
sudden change in customer base/value or operational need rather


 
than as part of a long term strategy


 
Service provider and retailer work in a mutually beneficial


 
collaborative manner with a data and knowledge transfer strategy


 
in place to support this


 
Proactive contingency planning


 
All third parties and retailer have common goals against which


 
progress is formally tracked both individually and collaboratively


 
Communication between retailer and third parties is consistent and


 
defined in the formal agreement and focuses on contractual


 
commitments and customer experience


 
Vendors are regularly appraised


Leading Criteria:
Vendors and third parties are proactively sought/investigated as


 
part of a long term strategy to meet customer requirements and


 
promote growth in terms of brand value, customer value and


 
operational effectiveness


 
Maturity of relationship is based more on business outcomes rather


 
than metrics


 
Service provider and retailer work in a mutually beneficial


 
collaborative manner that is stable


 
Proactive contingency planning that is tested regularly


 
Third parties and retailer have aligned goals, objectives and service


 
level agreements against which progress is formally tracked both


 
individually and collaboratively


 
Service provider is chosen to strategically provide complementary


 
benefits (e.g. differing time zones offering opportunity for 24 hr


 
support)


 
Communication between retailer and third parties is frequent and


 
varied, with informal communication to ensure strong team work


 
and formal communications to maintain focus on contractual


 
commitments and customer experience


 
Vendors are regularly appraised and measured against a standard


 
set of performance metrics displayed in a dashboard format


 








 

 
 



TABLE 70


 


Manage Third Party Interaction


Industry Transaction Management


 




 




Description:
Industry Transaction Management is the information management and


 
transfer between a retail utility, the market, other utilities and other


 
retailers for the purposes of transactional customer and metering data


 
needed for acquisition, consumption, billing, service orders, and loss


 
notification processes.


Basic Criteria:
Manual reporting capability into the clearing house hub to comply


 
to reporting protocols


 
Transactional data is shared on an ad hoc basis and formats often need 


 
to be translated to apply to each participant


 
Basic consumption information is exchanged


 
Start/stop requests are received by the retailer and manually transmitted 


 
to other industry participants


 
Reactive reporting at a basic level available to satisfy regulatory


 
requirements


Threshold Criteria:
Semi-automated reporting capability into the clearing house hub to


 
comply to reporting protocols


 
Transactional data is shared on a periodic basis


 
Format is consistent for information exchange but source systems


 
are disparate across the market


 
Templated tools are used to capture start/stop requests and relay to


 
distribution organizations and other entities


 
Periodic reporting distributed to key participants to satisfy


 
regulatory requirements


Above Average
Automated reporting capability into the clearing house hub to comply 


Criteria
to reporting protocols


 
Transactional data is shared on a daily basis through a centralized


 
information exchange


 
Increased standardization enables the customization of each party's


 
systems


 
Start/stop requests are logged into shared systems and status is


 
available to all participants


 
Regular reporting available to satisfy regulatory requirements


 
distributed to all participants


Leading Criteria:
Automated and configurable reporting capability into the clearing


 
house hub to comply to reporting protocols


 
Transactional information is shared on a real-time basis directly


 
from CIS and other output systems in a consistent native format


 
Industry-wide participation in determining technical interface


 
requirements


 
Standardization enables each participant to proactively design


 
enhancements and new systems to seamlessly integrate with markets


 
Detailed consumption history, patterns, and current consumption is


 
shared among participants


 
Start/stop requests are received and processed automatically with


 
tracking and push notifications of status change


 
Proactive, customizable and detailed real-time reporting available to 


 
regulators and all participants


 








 

 
 



TABLE 71


 


Manage Third Party Interaction


Technology and Infrastructure Management


 




 




Description:
Technology & Infrastructure Management supports and stabilizes the


 
customer contact system, contact center infrastructure, telephony, and


 
all quality tools. It gives full support to the business with regards to


 
business system requests, enhancements and maintenance. This


 
capability also ensures that all assets fit the strategic objectives and


 
needs of the business.


Basic Criteria:
No dedicated staff in place


 
No effective liaison or coordination between differing data needs


 
of different retail areas (meter data, customer data, quality data, etc.)


 
No processes in place to manage the release approach to system


 
upgrades


 
Management is ad hoc and reactive when issues or problems arise


 
in the system. No formal process for assessing enhancements for the 


 
systems


 
No documentation or testing


 
No communication - no one point of contact - people going


 
everywhere to find out what is happening with the system


 
No clearly defined business requirements - unable to see the whole


 
picture - deal with the big issues first


 
No formal budgetary tracking


Threshold Criteria:
Cross-functional team in place to handle technology management


 
Ad hoc processes in place to ensure coordination between different


 
retail groups' data and system needs


 
Ad hoc, reactive release approach


 
Management is proactive with no plan or direction for defining


 
enhancements - understand the need to look at potential issues


 
before they happen but do not have a plan in place to carry this forward


 
Some existing documentation and testing


 
One point of contact but practices not adhered to by the business


 
No process or control over change requests


 
Plan exists to look at business cases but is still reactive


 
Requests are being created but do not cover all aspects


 
No prioritization of fixes based on predetermined criteria


 
Ad hoc processes to track technology budget on an annual basis


Above Average
Group within IT tasked with formal processes to liaise between


Criteria
groups and provide coordination for a cohesive approach to


 
different data and information systems


 
Formal process and ad hoc timelines put in place to respond to system 


 
changes


 
Anticipate issues by looking at what may be the potential issues


 
and problems before implementing new enhancements


 
Elaborate testing and understanding of what other systems are


 
doing and determine what will happen when systems are brought


 
together


 
Significant level of documentation


 
All business needs and requests are funneled through one point of


 
contact - process for documenting and submitting change requests


 
and business cases


 
Plan in place and the knowledge to know what to do when


 
something goes wrong - initial background work completed to identify 


 
potential impacts


 
Proactive and planned approach - however still have lots of tools


 
and do not always know how each are working and how they will


 
work together


 
Defined process to automatically track technology budget at defined 


 
intervals


Leading Criteria:
Dedicated solution architect tasked with formalized proactive


 
processes in place to continuously liaise with all differing retail areas 


 
(meter data, customer data, quality data, etc.)


 
Formal processes and timelines in place to manage release approach to 


 
system changes


 
Quarterly review of what the system is doing and anticipate necessary 


 
upgrades/fixes and enhancements


 
Proactive approach to ensure system stabilization


 
Full documentation of system history - hat has been done, the tools, 


 
etc. and formalized processes for ensuring that the


 
documentation is maintained


 
All change requests have firm business cases linked to them to ensure 


 
system is not compromised - all look at FTE reduction and


 
if changes will result in higher productivity while keeping systems


 
stable - roactively identify changes


 
Point of contact has a firm plan in place and documentation on how


 
the system issues and stabilization are done - plan is


 
communicated and translated into the business


 
Technology budget is automatically tracked on an ongoing basis and is 


 
able to produce custom reporting


 
Continuous improvement processes in place on an annual basis


 





 FIG. 13 shows a multidimensional utility industry performance reference set 1300 (“reference set 1300”) that provides a capability detail pool from which the system described below may obtain benchmarking tables for a utility business. The reference set 1300 includes multiple key assessment performance reference tables (“reference tables”), two of which are labeled 1302 and 1304. Each reference table may provide the benchmarking criteria for a specific capability, such as those noted above with respect to FIGS. 2-13.
One dimension of each table may establish the ‘Basic’ performance level 140 specifying ‘Basic’ performance assessment criteria, the ‘Threshold’ performance level 142 specifying ‘Threshold’ performance assessment criteria, the ‘Above Average’ performance level 144 specifying ‘Above Average’ performance assessment criteria, and the ‘Leading’ performance level 145 specifying ‘Leading’ performance assessment criteria. Another dimension of each table may specify one or more key assessment areas (KAAs), several of which are labeled 1306, 1308, and 1310. As noted above, performance criteria, e.g., the PCC 1312, populates each key assessment performance reference table to provide benchmark criteria for ‘Basic’, ‘Threshold’, ‘Above Average,’ and ‘Leading’ characteristics.
The reference set 1300 represents the HPCA model 100. Consistent with the HPCA model 100, the reference set 1300 may organize multiple reference tables into a hierarchical structure defining discrete changes in granularity. In one implementation, the hierarchical structure includes reference tables, sub-platforms, platforms, and models. FIG. 13 labels three sub-platforms 1314, 1316, and 1318. The reference set 1300 may further organize the platforms into sub-platforms, two of which are labeled 1320 and 1322. Platforms aggregate into the HPCA model 100 and corresponding reference set 1300. Additional, different, or fewer levels of granularity may be defined in the HPCA model 100.
The reference set 1300 may dynamically populate the reference tables with the most up-to-date performance criteria, for example upon retrieval and presentation by a business analysis consultant. The performance criteria may be retrieved from a performance capability criteria database or other information source.
 FIG. 13 also shows an example of a database implementation 1324 of a portion of a reference table. In particular, the database implementation 1324 includes records (e.g., the records 1326, 1328, 1330, 1331) that establish each PCC 1312. In the example shown, each record includes a PCC field 1332, a category specifier field 1334, and a KAA specifier field 1336. Other fields may be provided, such as a reference table assignment field or reference set assignment field. The records categorize each PCC into a specific category (e.g., Basic), into a specific KAA, and, optionally, into a specific reference table in a specific reference set for any particular HPCA model.
 FIG. 14 shows a high-performance capability assessment system (“system”) 1400. The system 1400 includes a processor 1402 and a memory 1404. Several databases support the operation of the system 1400, including a capability performance database 1406, a performance measured database 1408, a capability detail pool database 1410, and an assessment results database 1426. The system 1400 may include a local display 1412 and input/output interfaces 1417 (e.g., including a keyboard, mouse, microphone, speakers, or other device), and, through the communication interface 1414 and networks 1416, may communicate with remote devices 1418 and remote displays 1420. The networks 1416 may be any combination of external networks (e.g., the Internet) and internal networks (e.g., corporate LANs). The displays 1412 and 1420 may, for example, present performance capability assessment models 1422 that the system 1400 retrieves from the capability detail pool database 1410 for review, modification, and application by process engineers or other individuals. With regard to local access or access by the remote devices 1418, the system 1400 may include a login processing program 1424 to authenticate and/or authorize access to the system 1400. To that end, the login processing program 1424 may include username/password verification, private/public key encryption, or other validation and data protection capabilities.
In one implementation, the capability performance database 1406 stores performance criteria. As will be described in more detail below, the system 1400 may populate performance capability assessment models with performance capability criteria suited to any particular platform (e.g., manage retail strategy platform 102, manage interaction platform 104, etc.) and business capability at one or more capability levels across one or more key assessment areas. The performance measured database 1408 may store the determined, measured, or otherwise ascertained characteristics, criteria, and other measured data of a particular key assessment area as representative practice data 1448. The representative practice data 1448 may be obtained through interviews with business consultants and industrial engineers, through online questionnaires, through manual or automated analysis of business data (e.g., year-end operating reports), or in other manners. The capability detail pool database 1410 stores the capability detail pool 1300, which includes pre-defined performance capability assessment models 1422. The assessment results database 1426 stores determined capability levels for specific capabilities that have been analyzed.
The system 1400 facilitates the review, modification, creation, and application of performance capability assessment models. In that role, performance capability assessment model manipulation logic (“manipulation logic”) 1446 within the system 1400 creates, retrieves, and stores capability assessment data 1428 in the memory 1404. The manipulation logic 1446 may establish capability assessment data 1428 in the memory 1404, including a capability assessment data structure 1430 with multiple capability levels (“CL”) 1432 organized along a scale of mastery dimension, multiple key assessment areas (“KAA”) 1434 organized along a key factor dimension, and performance criteria (“PCC”) 1436 that populates the performance capability assessment model 1430. The manipulation logic 1446 may vary widely in implementation, and, as one example, may include data storage logic 1452 that saves data in memory and user interface logic that accepts capability level specifications, key assessment area specifications and performance capability criteria inputs to create new performance capability assessment models, modify existing performance capability assessment models, delete performance capability assessment models, or retrieve performance capability assessment models for review.
In one implementation, the manipulation logic 1446 establishes the capability assessment data structure 1430 to include a multidimensional utility industry performance reference set that includes multiple key assessment performance reference tables in which the key assessment performance reference tables include a ‘Basic’ capability performance level, a ‘Threshold’ capability performance level, an ‘Above Average’ capability performance level, and a ‘Leading’ capability performance level.
The capability assessment data 1428 may also include a capability position specifier 1438. The capability position specifier 1438 may record the capability level along the scale of mastery 146, as determined for any particular capability. Thus, the system 1400 may store the performance level in the assessment results database 1426 or elsewhere for future retrieval and review.
In one implementation, the data population logic 1440 may be a data population program executed by the processor 1402 that populates template performance capability assessment models. For example, the data population logic 1440 may include input logic 1450 that accepts input specifying a capability of interest that indicates a particular performance capability assessment model. The data population logic 1440 may include query logic 1445 that executes database queries and prompts a user for input to obtain the corresponding performance capability criteria for the capability of interest.
In another implementation, for example, the query logic 1445 may receive an input specifying a utility industry area and a utility industry key assessment area with the utility industry area for analysis. The query logic 1445 searches the multidimensional utility industry performance reference set for a matching key assessment performance reference table that matches the utility industry area and the utility industry key assessment area, and retrieves the matching key assessment performance reference table.
The data population logic 1440 may further include storage logic that adds the retrieved performance capability criteria to the template performance capability assessment model. The data population logic 1440 produces populated performance capability assessment structures 1442 that may be stored in the capability detail pool database 1410.
In addition to the analysis process described above, the system 1400 may provide an automated analysis of representative practice data 1448 that identifies relevant performance capability criteria and determines the position on the scale of mastery 146 of each key assessment area corresponding to the performance capability criteria for the representative practice data 1448. As one example, the system 1400 may implement capability assessment logic 1444 that includes comparison and/or matching logic that analyzes the representative practice data 1448 with respect to performance capability criteria to locate key assessment areas for which the system 1400 can determine capability levels to obtain a resultant performance level for each key assessment area.
Furthermore, the capability assessment logic 1444 may determine an overall position on the scale of mastery 146 as the capability position specifier 1438, for a capability under examination given the knowledge of where the key assessment areas corresponding to the capability under examination fall in each capability level. Thus, for example, the capability assessment logic 1444 may determine an overall capability level for a capability corresponding to the capability level for the majority of the key assessment areas, or it may apply a weighted analysis technique to give more emphasis to some key assessment areas than others in determining the overall position on the scale of mastery 146 for a capability. As another example, the capability assessment logic 1444 may implement an expert system (e.g., based on a neural network trained on prior determinations) that analyzes the determined characteristics with respect to the performance capability criteria and ascertains where the capability under examination falls along the scale of mastery 146 for each of the key assessment areas, or overall on the scale of mastery.
 FIG. 15 shows a flow diagram 1500 for creating performance capability assessment models. The performance capability assessment model creator (e.g., the manipulation logic 1446) establishes a key factor dimension for the performance capability assessment model (1502). The performance capability assessment model creator also establishes a capability scale dimension for the performance capability assessment model (1504). The capability scale dimension may define a scale of increasing organizational capability. For example, the structure creator may create the ‘Basic’ level 140, the ‘Threshold’ level 142, the ‘Above Average’ level 144, and the ‘Leading’ level 145. The performance capability assessment model creator also populates the performance capability assessment model with capability performance criteria (1506). A capability detail pool 1300 may be formed to hold multiple tailored key assessment performance reference tables (1508). The performance capability assessment model creator may store the populated assessment structure in the capability detail pool for subsequent retrieval and analysis (1510).
 FIG. 16 shows a flow diagram 1600 for retrieving and applying performance capability assessment models. A selection of a capability to be analyzed is obtained (1602). In one implementation, the system 1400 receives input data that specifies a utility industry area and a utility industry key assessment area for analysis. For example, the system 1400 may accept input from a business consultant that specifies a capability for analysis. The system 1400 may query the capability detail pool 1300 for a corresponding performance capability assessment model (1604). The corresponding performance capability assessment model may be pre-defined in the capability detail pool 1300, or the data population logic 1330 (or other actor) may populate a performance capability assessment model template that the system 1400 newly creates, or that the system 1400 retrieves from a data store, such as the capability detail pool database 1410.
In another example, the system 1400 searches the multidimensional utility industry performance reference set in the capability detail pool 1300 for a matching key assessment performance reference table based on the input data that specifies a utility industry platform and a utility industry key assessment area. The system 1400 retrieves the matching key assessment performance reference table and initiates analysis of the matching key assessment performance reference table to obtain a resultant performance level for the utility industry key assessment area.
The system 1400 obtains representative practice data 1448 for the capability under examination in the specific business under review (1606). For example, a business consultant may interview the business to determine how the business currently executes the capability under review. As another example, a representative from the business may complete a questionnaire, submit business data for analysis and parameter extraction, or otherwise provide the characteristics of their current capability execution. As a further example, the system 1400 may retrieve the representative practice data 1448 from a database of previously obtained representative practice data.
The system 1400 compares the representative practice data 1448 to the performance criteria in the performance capability assessment model (1608). For example, a business consultant may use his or her expertise to arrive at a determination of level for the business and the capability under examination (1610). Alternatively or additionally, the capability assessment logic 1444 may perform an automated analysis of the assessment results data in the assessment results database 1426 and ascertain the performance level on the scale of mastery 146 (1610). The system 1400 may store the assessment results, including the determined performance level, for future reference in the assessment results database 1426 or other location (1612).
 FIG. 17 shows a flow diagram 1700 for analyzing representative practice data 1448 to determine a utility industry and a utility key assessment area to which the representative practice data applies. The system 1400 receives representative practice data 1448 as input data (1702). The system 1400 may receive the representative practice data 1448 from a database query performed by the query logic 1445 that the query logic executes periodically, when instructed by an operator, and/or automatically against any number of available database sources that store representative practice data 1448. The capability assessment logic 1444 analyzes the representative practice data 1448 to identify performance capability criteria in the capability detail pool 1300 that the capability assessment logic 1444 determines relevant to the representative practice data 1448 (1704). For example, the capability assessment logic 1444 may compare and/or match the content of the representative practice data 1448 with the performance capability criteria using natural language processing (NLP), text string and/or substring matching, by comparing tags linked to the representative practice data 1448 and that specify that any portion of the representative practice data 1448 is applicable to a specific PCC, by querying for a manual classification of the representative practice data 1448 to a PCC, or other matching technique. The capability assessment logic 1444 may score and/or weight a performance capability criteria and compare the score and/or weight to a user specified relevance threshold to rank the relevance of the performance capability criteria to the representative practice data 1448 (1706). The user may specify particular terms and/or phrases to search and match between the performance capability criteria and the representative practice data 1448, in order to score the performance capability criteria.
The capability assessment logic 1444 may determine, based on the number of performance capability criteria that meet or exceed the relevance threshold, that the capability assessment logic 1444 has identified a sufficient number of performance capability criteria for a specific key assessment area in order to determine a performance level for the capability as a whole or any key assessment area within the capability (1708). As one example, where at least 51% of the performance capability criteria for a particular key assessment area meet or exceed the relevance threshold, the capability assessment logic 1444 applies the performance capability criteria to the representative practice data 1448. In another example, the performance capability criteria for a particular key assessment area may be ranked in importance and/or designated as mandatory in order to assess the key assessment area. In the event the capability assessment logic 1444 identifies the mandatory performance capability criteria for a key assessment area, the capability assessment logic 1444 applies the performance capability criteria to the representative practice data 1448.
The capability assessment logic 1444 may apply the performance capability criteria meeting or exceeding the relevance threshold to the representative practice data 1448 to determine whether any particular PCC is met. Accordingly, as the capability assessment logic 1444 analyzes the PCC, the system 1400 tracks the best fit of the representative practice data 1448 to the PCCs in the key assessment performance reference tables. In other words, the system 1400 determines how the representative practice data 1448 meets (or does not meet) each PCC, thereby gaining insight into whether the representative practice data 1448 is indicative of Basic, Threshold, Above Average, or Leading practices.
The system 1400 may also gauge the position on the scale of mastery 146 of each key assessment area corresponding to the performance capability criteria (1710). The capability assessment logic 1444 may further determine an overall position on the scale of mastery 146 for a capability (1712). The capability assessment logic 1444 may establish that a desired number and/or designated mandatory performance capability criteria for the key assessment areas have been identified as relevant to a capability and sufficient to determine the position on the scale of mastery 146 for the capability. For example, the capability assessment logic 1444 may determine an overall performance level for the capability based on the performance level determined for the majority of the key assessment areas. The capability assessment logic 1444 may apply a weighted analysis technique to give more emphasis to some key assessment areas than others in determining the overall position on the scale of mastery 146 for the capability. Although selected aspects, features, or components of the implementations are depicted as being stored in computer-readable memories (e.g., as computer-executable instructions or performance capability assessment models), all or part of the systems and structures may be stored on, distributed across, or read from other computer-readable media. The computer-readable media may include, for example, secondary storage devices such as hard disks, floppy disks, and CD-ROMs; a signal, such as a signal received from a network or received at an antenna; or other forms of memory, including ROM or RAM, either currently known or later developed.
Various implementations of the system 1400 may include additional or different components. A processor may be implemented as a microprocessor, a microcontroller, a DSP, an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), discrete logic, or a combination of other types of circuits or logic. Similarly, memories may be DRAM, SRAM, Flash or any other type of memory. The processing capability of the system may be distributed among multiple system components, such as among multiple processors and memories, optionally including multiple distributed processing systems. Parameters, databases, and other data structures may be separately stored and managed, may be incorporated into a single memory or database, may be logically and physically organized in many different ways, and may be implemented in many ways, including data structures such as linked lists, hash tables, or implicit storage mechanisms. Programs may be combined or split among multiple programs, or distributed across several memories and processors.
The HPCA 100 model provides unexpectedly good results for a performance capability assessment model, particularly in the utility industry. In particular, the combinations of key assessment areas and particular assessment criteria of the HPCA model, including the criteria noted in Tables 5-71 above, provide significant advantages over other assessment models. The unexpectedly good results include clearly identifying and delineating from among multiple related complex processes the specific processes to improve, and how to improve the process and identifying concrete and measurable improvement goals.
While various embodiments of the invention have been described, it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that many more embodiments and implementations are possible within the scope of the invention. Accordingly, the invention is not to be restricted except in light of the attached claims and their equivalents.