Correlation apparatus for computing time averages of functions 
US-3404261-A
Int Standard Electric Corp
1968-10-01
https://patents.google.com/patent/US3404261A/en
Oct. 1, 1968 3,404,261; 
CORRELATION APPARATUS FOR COMPUTING TIME AVERAGES 0F FUNCTIONS s. A. JssPl-zls' ETAL 8 Sheets-Sheet 1 Filed March 6, 1963 EXCLUSIVE 0/? lnvenlors FAUL a. A. JESPERS PE rs/ cm! 89% f Oct 1, 1968 P. G. A. JES-PERS ETAL 3,404,261 
 CORRELATION APPARATUS FOR COMPUTING TIME AVERAGES OF FUNCTIONS Filed March 6, 1963 8 Sheets-Sheet 2 IMPEDANCE CON YER 7' 5R PROGRAM 571 (4 ca 52' SELECTOR 5 (7' [COUNTER r /5 earns-k MEMORY M5 In venlors PA UL G. A. E-S ERS PE 78/ CHU Home Oct. 1, 1968 P. G. A. JESPERS ETAL. ,261 
CORRELATION APPARATUS FOR COMPUTING TIME AVERAGES OF FUNCTIONS Filed March 6, 1963 v 8 Sheets-Sheet 5 7 iii  I sa C 7/ c3 7 Z? 6 2 2 gfiifo es/v  BOOTSTRAP CIRCUIT J Inventors PAUL G, A. JESPERS PE 75/ CH By 4 Home Oct. 1, 1968 G. JESPERS ETAL 3, 1 
(EGFRELATION APPARATUS P R COMPU'T'ING TIME AVERAGES OF FUNCTIONS Filed March 6, 1963 8 Sheets-Sheet 5 P50 P49 f/CT l 00 99 PIG 5 4 I 99 3: m by /00 000 012 COUNTER v 9991-9-99 Inventors PAUL G. A. JES'PERS PE 75/ CHU Atlor ey P. G. A. JESPERS ETAL" 3,404,261 
8 Sheets-Sheet 6 m u a, w v a k x Q Q w w 6 A? Me A mm L N TL a. Q QM M u v m fi W N QM Pm W3 P 32x 8 0% A Q 5. ilTilllwm QM I01 kwk $ow \QQMQ MQQQ bx Nw @& gm v/q w m 53 A Qw mm mm uh S, aw L i s w whmk QEQEQ \QEQ W QM. WII o AY II R N @MN m m A Q 3 R 3% m E mw b %w w g A Q m MC V Q Q, ||iTi1!|l||| Em 5 mm A 5w 9 \3 Q Wm SQ 1 MQ m% Oct. 1, 1968 CORRELATION APPARATUS FOR COMPUTING TIME AVERAGES OF FUNCTIONS Filed March 6, 1963 as 129/- By Attorney 1968 P. G. A. JESPERS ETAL 3,404,261 
CORRELATION APPARATUS FOR COMPUTING TIME AVERAGES OF FUNCTIONS Filed March 6, 1963 8 Sheets-Sheet '7 t 25- kt? l 23/ F23/ 49% Z7 0 n 2% f -Z 0 25/ H23 I W2; zs/ W2 t/ I i V 2/3l 'F53 6/2 F32/ Inventors PAUL G. A. JESPERS PE U B 4 21 7 .4 (tom y Oct. 1, 1968 P. e. A. JESPERS E TAL 3,404,261 
CORRELATION APPARATUS FOR COMPUTING TIME AVERAGES OF FUNCTIONS Filed March 6, 1963 8 Sheets-Sheet 8 l 25 I -Z-' I I I I lllllll lllll .9z990om05 4 m L A 505 p 2 H 10/ o m 39 /1 00 HCT o/ 9T9 Inventors PAUL 6'. A. JESPfRS United States Patent 3,404,261 CORRELATION APPARATUS FOR COMPUTING 1 TIME AVERAGES OF FUNCTIONS Paul Gustave Amlie Jespers, Tervueren, and Pa Tsi Chu, Antwerp, Belgium, assignors to International Standard Electric Corporation, New York, N.Y., a corporation of Delaware Filed Mar. 6, 1963, Ser. No. 263,234 Claims priority, application Belgium, Mar. 7, 1962, 289,898, Patent 614,757 37 Claims. (Cl. 235-181) The invention relates to an apparatus for computing time averages of functions comprising means for the sampling of functions at repeated time intervals. 
 Such an apparatus has been described in US. Patent No. 2,643,819 and also in an article by Y. W. Lee, T. P. Cheatham, Jr. and J. B. Wiesner published on pages 1165-1171 of the October 1950 issue of PIRE. In these prior references, the apparatus described had as more specific object the computation of correlation functions, i.e. functions defined by where F (t represents the cross'correlation function of the functions j (t) and f (t), the time variable t disappearing in the course of integration in such a manner that the correlation function F is a function of t the time interval corresponding to the shift between the functions f and f When the functions f and f are distinct from one another, the function F 0 is called the crosscorrelation function, but when function E0) is identical to function f (t), the correlation function F 0 is called the autocorrelation function. Correlation functions have acquired an appreciable importance in different domains and they represent a particularly effective tool for the analysis of the statistical characteristics of messages or noise. Among the principle applications of correlation analysis one may briefly mention noise analysis, network analysis and detection of periodic signals. 
 In relation to noise analysis, the theorem of Wiener- Khintchine proves that the autocorrelation function and the power .density spectrum of a stationary random signal, i.e. such that its statistical properties are independent of time, form a pair of Fourier transforms. In this manner, from the autocorrelation function it is thus possible to determine the spectral power distribution of any stationary random process. 
 The article of -P. Jespers entitled Introduction de Mthodes statistiques dans l'tude des filtres and published on pages 199 to 207 of Revue E. Tijdschrift, volume III, No. 5, 1961, describes among other things the applications of correlation functions to circuit analysis. The latter may be either linear or non-linear, with or without local noise source and in each case it is possible to calculate the transfer function of a network and its pulse response from the correlation functions of a random input signal, which may for instance be white noise, and of the random output signal from the network. The input-output crosscorrelation function of the network, e.g. a filter, driven by white noise is proportional to the pulse response of the filter, theFourier transform of this crosscorrelation function being proportional to the transfer function of the filter. In particular, these properties permit to determine the transmission characteristics of networks which-cannot be disturbed by the application Patented Oct. 1, 1968 i.e. those which do not present relations between one another. Detailed considerations on the advantage of autocorrelation and crosscorrelation for such applications are to be found in the above mentioned PIRE article. 
 There is a multiplicity of application fields for correlators and one may mention for instance long-range radar echo detection, oil soundings, electroencephalography, oceanography, noise and acoustic measurements, mechanical impedance problems, atmospheric turbulence, radio interferences, etc. I 
 Most of the correlators developed until now have been of the analogue type with computing precisions of the order of 5%. 
 An analogue correlator is described for instance by K. W. Golf in an article published in The Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, volume 27, No. 2, March 1955, pages 223 to 236 and entitled An analog Correlator for Acoustic Measurements. 
 The US. Patent No. 2,643,819 describes a system on a digital basis where the two electric waveforms representing the functions f (t) and 50) are sampled at time intervals which are separated by a delay t By repeating this pair of measurements N times, N being a large number, the time interval separating the two samples of a pair being always equal to t and the pairs of samples being separated by a time interval which is sufiiciently large so that the measurements are statistically independent from one another, it will be possible to use the result of these N measurements to compute a point of the cro'sscorrelation function F (t corresponding to the particular value of representing the delay between the two samples of each pair. The computing procedure consists in multiplying the voltage amplitudes of the two samples, one from the function f (t) and the other from the function f (t), of a pair and to accumulate the N products thus obtained to secure the sum of all these N products which divided by N, will give the value of the crosscorrelation function F 0 for the particular delay value t which is chosen. The N pairs of samples need not be obtained with equal intervals between one another and these time intervals must be sufiiciently long to ensure statistical equilibrium, but in practice it will generally be easier to regularly sample the two waveforms. As described in the above mentioned patent and in the above mentioned PIRE article, each pair of samples gives rise to a pair of pulses whose amplitudes represent the respective instantaneous amplitudes of the two functions at the respective sampling instants and one of the-pulse trains corresponding to one of the waveforms is modified so as to transform the amplitude variation of these pulses into time variations, after which the amplitude modulated pulses of the other train are also modulated in duration by the modified pulses of the first train so as to obtain a train of pulses whose surfaces are proportional to the product of the pair of instantaneous amplitudes. These pulses which are modulated both in amplitude and in duration are then forwarded to an integrating device. 
 After N pairs of samples, it is necessary to repeat the operation and this as many times as the desired number of different points to be computed for the correlation curve. If the desired number of points is n, nN pairs of samples shall thus have to be successively obtained. 
 Despite the sampling, the operation of the correlator described above still calls largely upon analogue computing methods which makes it diificult to secure a high precision apparatus. Phase shifting devices are foreseen to create the time difference t between the samples of the first waveform and those of the second, and the means to multiply the amplitudes of the samples, to add the products and to obtain the average for the N pairs of samples are essentially analogue means. 
 A corrclator using pairs of samples but provided with computing circuits enabling a much larger precision has been described by H. E. Singleton in an article entitled A Digital Electronic Correlator and published on pages 1422-1428 of the December 1950 issue of PIRE. In this digital correlator, a timing device is foreseen enabling to produce two pulse trains with an interval of t between any two corresponding pulses of the two trains, interval which may be modified for the calculation of the various n points of the correlation function. The instantaneous amplitudes which are sampled by these pulses are converted into pulses whose duration is modulated in a corresponding manner. A digital quantizing of these durations proportional to the instantaneous amplitudes is obtained with the help of a binary counter. Started from a rest condition by advancing pulses, at a given rate, at the start of the duration modulated pulses, this counter will have a numerical condition at the end of this duration modulated pulse which will be a digital measure of this duration and consequently of the instantaneous amplitude measured by the sampling pulse. The two digital values thus Obtained for the two samples forming a pair are then applied to a digital multiplier and the digits of the product are integrated for the N pairs of samples by sending them into a digital accumulator constituted by a cascade of histable circuits operating as a binary counter whose last stages will give the result of the sum of these N products. 
 While this digital method is more precise and more flexible, it nevertheless requires a considerable amount of equipment. By quantizing as indicated in the article on a basis of ten binary digits, the binary counter must be able to count a maximum of 2 1 pulses, and even when using a frequency of 5 megacycles per second fordriving such a binary counter, one must count on a time of 200 microseconds merely for coding a pulse. A like time is required for the multiplication of the two ten-digit binary numbers and an addition circuit must be provided able to accumulate the N products of the two binary numbers of ten digits each. As N may generally vary from to 10 a representative value being 10 it is seen that the circuits are necessarily either very complicated in the case of fast parallel computation or alternatively the operations take an enormous time in the case of serial calculations. 
 Correlation functions must be calculated for n values of the delay t and in practice if one wishes to determine this delay with some precision, for instance as described in the last article cited above with the help of a digital frequency divider, one is brought to use a unitary delay t all the different delays being integral multiples of this unitary delay. For the computation of n points of the correlation function, the various delays thus go from 0, t 2t 3t to (n1)t and the maximum time separating a waveform sample from the next sample must be at least equal to m plus the time necessary for the quantizing', multiplication and addition operations described above. In practice, one is necessarily driven to choose a unique predetermined value between two successive samples of the same wave form and this time shall thus necessarily be at least equal to m plus the computation time. 
 The determination of the nN pairs of samples may thus necessitate a considerable time which may rise to several days for values of n and N equal to 10 and to 10 respectively, and this despite the use of frequencies of the order of the megacycle and more for some of the computation operations. 
 A general object of the invention is to realize an apparatus permitting to compute time averages of functions and particularly for computing correlation functions and which, while using digital techniques permitting a high precision, necessitates only an equipment which is very reduced with regard to the existing realizations. 
 Another object of the invention is to realize such an apparatus which, all other things being equal, can perform the computation in a very reduced time with regard l 4 to the time necessary in accordance with the known tech niques. 
 In accordance with a first general aspect of the invention, an apparatus for the computation of time averages of functions as initially defined, is characterized by the fact that comparator means are provided to compare the amplitude of each of the functions samples with the instantaneous amplitude of a variable reference level and to associate a binary value to the result of each comparison. 
 In accordance with another characteristic of the invention, said reference level varies in a random manner. 
 In accordance with another characteristic of the invention, said reference levelvaries continuously between a predetermined lower limit and a predetermined higher limit. 
 In accordance with another characteristic of the invention, the maxima and minima of said functions do not go beyond said limits. 
 In accordance with another characteristic of the invention, said reference .level varies linearly. 
 In accordance with another characteristic of the invention, an accumulator is provided for algebraically adding the N binary values resulting from N successive comparisons for the same function. 
 It has been proved that by performing such comparisons between the samples of the function whose time average must be computed and the reference samples whose amplitude varies in a random manner permits to avoid quantizing the amplitudes of the samples as previously done and entailing a complex and relatively slow equipment. 
 Another object of the invention is to apply the comparison technique mentioned above with reference amplitudes varying in a random manner in order to compute correlation functions. 
 In accordance with another characteristic of the invention, an apparatus for computing time averages of functions and particularly for computing correlation functions as defined in accordance with the first general aspect of the invention in characterized by the fact that k(k 1) binary values resulting from a set of k comparisons between k functions and the k instantaneous values of the random variable reference levels which are respectively associated thereto, these random variables being independent from one another, are provided by the k comparator means to a logical circuit producing an output binary value dependent on the parity of the number out of the k comparisons having given a same binary result, an accumulator being foreseen to algebraically add the N output binary values resulting out of N successive sets of k comparisons. 
 In the case of ordinary correlation functions such as defined at the beginning of this description, one will thus give a first or a second value in accordance with the result of the comparison between the functions f, and the instantaneous amplitude of the reference sample which is associated thereto and by normalizing one of these values to unity, one may thus give the value 1 or a (a 1) in accordance with the result of the comparison. The same possibility is offered for the function f so that for each pair of samples of the functions f and f the comparisons with the instantaneous amplitudes of the corresponding reference samples may give four possible results which may be defined 'by 00, 11 when the amplitudes of the two functions are either both lower or equal to or both higher than their reference samples and by 01, 10 when the first function is lower or equal to its reference sample while the second is higher than its reference sample, and vice versa. In the first case symbolized by 00, 11, the number of functions giving comparisons with the same result is even while in the other case it is odd and for the whole series of comparisons for the two functions, one will give in this way either one or the other value, i.e. 1 or a in normalized values. 
 It can be proved that if the two values expressing the result of all the comparisons are 1 and 1, the algebraic addition. of a large number N of these results will give a sum directly proportional to the correlation function. This will also-be true for the calculation of the average of a single function or of the mean of the product of two functions. 
 In accordance with a second general aspect of the invention, an apparatus for the computation of time averages of functions and particularly for the computation of correlation functions including means for repeatedly sampling functions in time, is characterized by the fact that the digital values resulting from the sampling of the different time functions are stored in a memory including a number of sections which is sufficient to successively store a series of It results of the sampling, each of these last results corresponding to a particular value of the correlation delay of one of said functions with respect to another. 
 In accordance with another characteristic of the invention, an apparatus as characterized above includes in association with the said memory an access switch and a staticizing device permitting to successively transfer each of the 11 results inscribed in the said memory into the staticizing device under the control of the access switch which is switched from one position to the other by an n-conditions delay counter driven by a train of repeated pulses and which provides control signals to said access switch in order to successively create a series of n pulse trains whose time positions inside a revolution cycle of said delay counter corresponds to a particular correlation delay, the pulses feeding said delay counter serving also to define the instants during which one of the time functions is sampled, while one or possibly more pulses produced at an n times slower rhythm by said delay counter are used to define a reference time for the sampling of one of the time functions at each cycle of said delay counter and possibly for the sampling of other time functions than that regularly sampled at the rhythm of the input pulses driving said delay counter. 
 In accordance with another characteristic of the invention, the staticizing device of said memory is characterized by the fact that it is realized in the form of a counter comprising a predetermined number of two condition devices which on the one hand are fed in parallel from said memory under the control of said access switch in order'to staticize one of the It results stored in said memory and which on the other hand is serially fed from the comparator devices foreseen to compare the time functions with their respective reference levels, this serial drive being made in the form of pulses characterizing the result of said comparisons. 
 In accordance with another characteristic of the invention, the said staticizing device operates as a reversible counter and is provided with a two-condition device indicating the sign of the numerical value corresponding to the condition of the reversible counter acting as a stati cizing device, the counter being provided with two dis tinct inputs and the appearance of a pulse on one or the other of the inputs having for effect to add or subtract a unit to or from the result registered in said reversible counter. 
tained, one assigns the value +1 or -'1' to the result of the overall comparison and the result being between the limits +N and N, even in the case of a valuefor N equal to such a numbervcan be expressed with the help of a relatively small quantity of binary digits. By registering such a number in a memory section corresponding to a given correlation delay, this memory can staticize the number inscribed in a section at the moment the new series of samples is obtained and the overallrresult of the new comparison will cause the addition or the subtraction of one unit from the staticized number which may then be reinscribed in the corresponding memory section. At the next delay time, the same operation may be repeated for another memory section and so on. 
 In this manner it isalso seen that for computing correlation functions it is no longer necessary to foresee a device providing a correlation delay time, but it becomes possible to use a single train of repetitive pulses to sample the function f at each pulse while the function h will be sampled at a lower rhythm only equal to l/n times the sampling rhythm of f by applying the pulse train to a frequency divider which may be realized by an n-condition counter which is continuously driven. The instantaneous condition of such a delay counter among the it possible conditions defines a correlation delay time since for this condition the pulse sampling the function f is separated from the pulse having previously sampled the function f by a time which depends on the product of the delay counter condition by the sampling period for f2. 
 Another object of the invention is to facilitate quantization of the samples by using the variable reference level. 
 In accordance with another characteristic of the invention, a waveform'proportional to a time function to be analyzed and the reference Waveform whose slope varies in a linear manner are applied to the two inputs of an operational amplifier which produces the analogue sum of the two waveforms. 
 In accordance with another characteristic of the invention, the waveform produced at the output of said operational amplifier is transmitted to the comparator means constituted by a two-input differential amplifier fed on the one hand by the said sum of the waveform to be analyzed with the reference waveform associated therewith, and on the other hand by a fixed stabilized reference voltage, triggering pulses being provided to the output stage of said differential amplifier in order to produce a pulse at one or the other of two distinct outputs of said differential amplifier in accordance with the result of the comparison between said sum of the two waveforms and the fixed stabilized reference voltage. 
 In accordance with another characteristic of the invention, the two outputs from said differential amplifier are respectively coupled to the inputs of a bistable device acting as staticizing device to store the result of the sampling of the waveform representing a time function. 
 In this manner, one may express the result of the comparison between the waveform to be analyzed and the variable reference waveform by simple and reliable means, it being possible for the result to remain stored in the staticizing bistable during any desired time interval. For the computation of the correlation function it will in particular be possible to sample the waveform representing the function in the case of the computation of an autocorrelation function, or that representing one of the two functions for the computation of the crosscorrelation function, keep the result in memory in a staticizing bistable during a complete cycle of the delay counter until a new sample of this waveform is stored. But during this cycle, the other staticizing bistable may be used for sampling during successive correlation delay times of the same waveforms (autocorrelation) or of the other waveform representing the other function (crosscorrelation) and states of the two bistables can be successively compared, at each delay time, a logical circuit which Will provide a corresponding binary signal to the reversible counter permitting to accumulate the results of the Nn series of comparisons in the case of the computation of n points of the curve, each necessitating N sets of samples. 
 In such a device permitting to pass from analogue values (the function or functions'to be analyzed and the reference function or functions) to digital values (the 7 state or states of staticizing bistables), it is important to use measuring means which are as accurate as possible to compare the two waveforms. 
 Another object of the invention is consequently to increase the precision of the comparison between the waveforms to be analyzed and the reference Waveform with a variable level. 
 In accordance with another characteristic of the invention, the potential obtained at the output of said operational amplifier is transmitted to one of the inputs of the differential amplifier acting as comparator by means of a voltage limiting device comprising a first symmetrical amplitude limiter followed by an amplifier at the output of which is a second symmetrical amplitude limiter, the reference voltage for each of the two limiters being each time equal to the said fixed stabilized reference voltage applied to the second input of said differential amplifier. 
 In this manner, the waveform representing the sum of the waveform to be analyzed and of the sawtooth reference waveform, or what amounts to the same thing, the 
waveform representing the difference between that to be analyzed and a sawtooth reference waveform whose slope is at any time the negative of the first, is subjected to a first slicing around the reference potential and after an amplification of this limited waveform a second slice of this amplitude waveform is finally obtained which permits an increased accuracy for the determination of the transition instants between the sum of the two waveforms and the fixed reference potential, i.e. the instants where the amplitude of the waveform to be analyzed goes through the instantaneous value of a variable level reference waveform. 
 In order to produce the reference waveform whose levels vary linearly between two predetermined limits but with'slopes whose value is a random variable, it is important to be able to ensure a good linearity of the reference waveform while guaranteeing a true determination of this slope by the random phenomenon which controls it. 
 Another object of the invention is to realize a transistorized scanning generator particularly adapted to these ends. 
 In accordance with a third general aspect of the invention, a linear transistorized scanning generator using the bootstrap circuit principle is characterized by the fact that it includes a first and a second bootstrap circuit whose two inputs are coupled between one another towards a control voltage source and whose outputs are also coupled to one another to provide the output waveform, these two bootstrap circuits being identical with the exception of the polarity of the transistors, rectifiers or voltage sources used and which are the reverse of one another so as to be able to create by each bootstrap circuit a linear voltage variation in a given direction, the linear parts for each bootstrap circuit being controlled with the help of a bistable circuit having an output connected to the two bootstrap circuitsfor the control of a transistor operating as a short-circuiting switch for the linear charge capacitor, the two inputs of the bistable circuit being respectively controlled by a triggering signal coming from level detecting devices respectively included in the first and in the second bootstrap circuit, when the corresponding linear voltage variation goes beyond a predetermined level and distinct for each bootstrap circuit, the said output from the bistable circuit being coupled by an impedance to the output of the linear scanning generator, this measure ensuring a scanning generator output voltage which essentially consists in the linear part of the voltage variation successively provided by the two bootstrap circuits in accordance with the state of said bistable circuit. 
 In accordance with another characteristic of the invention, in each bootstrap circuit, the output from the transistor operating as buffer amplifier is connected to the output terminal of the linear scanning generator by a first rectifier and to the input of said level detecting device by a second rectifier, the rectifiers of the second bootstrap circuit being of opposite polarity with respect to those of 8 the first and in each bootstrap circuit the potential level detecting device providing an output signal when this p0 tential is reached and which serves to trigger the bistable in the condition enabling the short-circuiting of the linear charge condenser in the bootstrap circuit where the said reference level has been reached. 
 In accordance with another characteristic of the invention, a white noise generator is connected to the input of said linear scanning generator. 
 In this manner, such an association of two bootstrap circuits with a bistable device permits to select the linear parts of the waveforms produced by the two circuits using complementary transistors and the control by a white noise source will permit to trigger the linear part of each of the scanning waveforms of the bootstrap circuits and to instantaneously give it a random slope, the white noise source being coupled to the bootstrap circuit only at the transition time. This ensures an absolute value for the slopes of the reference waveform which, while remaining constant for a given variation from one predetermined level to the other, is a random variable. 
 Yet another object of the invention is to permit the realization of a versatile correlator which can be readily adapted to various calculations. 
 In accordance with another characteristic of the invention, a correlator as characterized above comprises an interconnecting device with 2k input terminals and 2k output terminals, k(k l) being the number of waveforms to be analyzed which may be simultaneously applied to the correlator, k of said input terminals being connected to the input circuits to which are brought the waveforms to be analyzed, for instance variable attenuators followed by an impedance converter and the k remaining input terminals being connected to the variable reference level generators, the 2k output terminals of said interconnecting device being connected to the inputs of k operational amplifiers each with two inputs and the interconnecting device permitting to selectively interconnect the said input terminals to the said output terminals. 
 In this manner, one may readily adapt the correlator to the computation of various functions. If the correlator is foreseen for the handling of two distinct functions, the interconnecting device will have two pairs of input terminals and two pairs of output terminals, the latter being permanently connected to the inputs of two operational amplifiers, one for each pair of output terminals from the interconnecting device. Each pair of output terminals from this device comprises a terminal connected to the output of the input circuit for one of the waveforms to be analyzed and the other connected to the output from the variable reference voltage generator. For the computation of the crosscorrelation function, if two distinct waveforms are applied to two input circuits, the input terminals of the interconnecting device corresponding to these two input circuits will be connected to output terminals which are not associated with the same operational amplifier, the other two input terminals of the interconnecting device being connected to the two other output terminals. If on the other hand the calculation of an autocorrelation function is desired, in the interconnecting device it suffices to disconnect one of the input terminals corresponding to the input circuit which does not receive any waveform to be analyzed and to branch the interconnecting wire on the only input circuit which is effectively used. 
 One of the operational amplifiers is coupled to a comparator which is regularly sampled during each delay time, while'the other operational amplifier leads to a comparator which is sampled only every n delay times. For the cross correlation function, one of the waveforms will be successively sampled for every delay time and the other once out of n. In case of the autocorrelation function, the waveform to be analyzed, which is unique, will be applied to one of the input circuits and it will thus be regularly sampled by a comparator for each time delay and once out of n by the other. 
In case of a computation of an autocorrelation function, the correlation delays t must only be calculated for one given sign, since an autocorrelation function is even. For crosscorrelation functions F with the help of the interconnecting device it will be possible to perform a first computation of n points of F 0 and when this computation will be terminated, in the interconnecting device it will suffice to cross the connections starting from the two input circuits and to repeat the calculations which will produce the function F 0 equal to the crosscorrelation function F (-t As will be explained later in detail, for the correlation functions of higher order, without extreme complications it will be possible with the help of the interconnecting device to successively perform the calculation by inverting the order of the k functions in accordance with the k possibilities to compute all the possible'values. These modifications of the connections may be programmed. 
 If it is desired to compute the time average of a single function, the interconnecting device will be used to connect the corresponding waveform towards that of the two channels which is regularly sampled every delay time, while the input of the interconnecting device corresponding to the other channel will be connected to ground. In the case of the computation of the RMS value of a random time function, the connections will be the same as for an autocorrelation function, but care will be taken to provide the sampling pulses to the two channels for each delay time. 
 Among the other uses of the correlator allowed by the invention, one may still cite the computation of the probability function and that of the probability density by using a variable reference level generator with a fixed slope and having a period corresponding to the cycle of the delay counter. 
 Another use of the correlator in accordance with the invention will permit to ,verify the stationary character of a random time function by repeated computation of the autocorrelation function by keeping into memory the previous result so as to permit a comparison. 
 The above mentioned and other objects and features of the invention will become more apparent and the invention itself will be better understood from the description of detailed embodiments thereof to be read in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and which represent various forms of the invention or diagrams to explain the latter, i.e. 
 FIG. 1, a diagram of the variable level reference waveform with a random slope; 
 FIG. 2, a diagram in the form of a cube representing the distribution of the comparison results in order to calculate second order correlation functions; 
 FIG. 3, a block diagram of a logical circuit permitting to distribute the comparison results in two groups for the calculation of correlation functions of any order; 
 FIG. 4, a diagram representing the plot of a first order correlation function; 
 FIG. 5, a diagram representing a surface corresponding to a second order correlation function; 
 FIG. 6, a first part, in the form of a block diagram, of the correlator circuit in accordance with the invention and more particularly that part of the correlator permitting to derive and to staticize binary values following the sampling of the functions to be analyzed; 
 FIG. 7, a second part, as a block diagram, of the correlator circuits in accordance with the invention and more particularly those operating from binary signals received from the circuits of FIG. 6 and under the con- FIG. 11, the detailed circuit of a linear scanning generator using two transistorized bootstrap circuits to provide the reference waveform whose level varies linearly with a random slope between two extreme values; 
 FIG. 12, various waveforms present at different points of the circuits of FIG. 6; 
 FIG. 13, waveforms appearing in the circuit of the variable reference level generator detailed in FIG. 11; 
 FIG. 14, an embodiment of electronic gates such' as P9 represented by a logical symbol in FIG. 7; 
 FIG. 15, a circuit representing certain modifications to be brought to the correlator Whose circuits are represented in FIGS. 6 and 7 for the computation of correlation functions of higher orders and more particularly correlation functions of the second order; 
 FIG. 16, a diagram of the sampling pulses for the computation of second order correlation functions; 
' FIG. 17, modifications to be brought to the correlator whose circuits are represented in FIGS. 6 and 7 in order to adapt it to the computation of second order correlation functions with an automatic limitation in the choice of the correlation delays; 
 FIG. 18, a modification of the circuit of FIG. 17 permitting to compute second order correlation functions with correlation delay times higher than the maximum delay time normally used; 
 FIG. 19, a table of the various points of a second order correlation function which can be computed with the help of the circuits of FIGS. 6, 7 and 17; 
 FIG. 20, a table analogous to that of'FIG. 19 for a second order correlation function derived from that corresponding to the table of FIG. 19; 
 FIG. 21, a table showing the transposition of the results of FIG. 20 in the table of FIG. '19; 
 FIG. 22, a table representing various points of a second order correlation function derived from that corresponding to the table of FIG. 19, points which are calculated with the help of the supplementary circuits of FIGS. 17 and 18; 
' FIG. 23, a diagram showing a surface comprising the various points of the second order correlation function corresponding to the table of FIG. 22; 
 FIG. 24, a transposition of the results represented in FIG. 23 in the plane corresponding to the second order correlation function whose points are represented by the table of FIG. 19; 
 FIG. 25, a diagram of the various points of the second order correlation function showing the distribution of the various computations; 
 FIG. 26, a fixed slope linear reference voltage generator with the fixed slope occupying practically all the scanning period and using one of the bootstrap circuits of FIG. 11; 
 FIG. 27, the waveform which can be generated by the circuit of FIG. 26-; and g FIG. 28, modifications to be brought to the circuits of FIGS. 6 and 7 to enable ascertaining that random time functionis stationary. i 
 The average of a random variable may be expressed in function of the algebraical sum of binary values corresponding to two possible results of comparisons between this random variable and a reference level which also varies, preferably in a random manner, and more particularly a linearly varying reference level, the value of the slope being preferably a random variable. Each time that the function whose average must be computed as 'sampled, the variable reference level is also sampled and one or the other value is stored in an algebraic accumlator depending on whether the sample of the function whose average must be taken is either smaller than or equal to the level of the reference sample, or whether it is larger than the latter. It may be proved that the average of this function is directly proportional to the result stored in this accumulator after having taken two possible values are +1 and l. 
 By referring to FIG. 1, the latter shows a sawtooth waveform 1 linearly varying between two extreme constantamplitude values +E and E taken around a zero reference. Preferably these two amplitude values will be taken equal to E. As shown, the slope of the waveform whose sign is reversed after each scan has an absolute value which varies from onescan to the next and this variation occurs at random. If the intervals between successive passages of the waveform 1 through a predetermined amplitude such as zero are considered, it is clear that this time interval varies in a random manner in accordance with the random variations of the slope from one scan to the next. Thus, if a sample of a certain function (not represented in FIG. 1) should be taken each time that the sawtooth waveform 1 passes through an amplitude such as zero, the interval between adjacent samples of this waveform would have the required random character in order to ensure the statistical independence of sample of this function whether the latter contains periodical components or not. Thus, a random shift or time variation of the sampling is obtained. 
 On the other hand, if periodic sampling is used, it is clear that the instantaneous amplitude A of the sawtooth waveform 1 considered as a variable reference is not constant but varies in a random manner from one scan to the next. If it is assumed that the total sampling period is sufficiently large so that the total number N of the samples taken during this period is very high, the regularly spaced pulses and produced for instance at the times indicated by 2, 3 and 4 will correspond to distinct amplitudes or reference levels, indicated by 5, 6 and 7 respectively and whose average value of their total number S is such that it may be considered as equal to N /M where M represents the total number of scans from One extreme value to the other or vice versa, such as 8, 9, 10 achieved by the waveform 1 during the total sampling period of the N successive samples. 
 Thus, the variable reference level constituted by the waveform 1 passing alternately from +E to E and vice versa with a linear slope of random value can be considered as a random variable A expressed as a time series offering discontinuous variations. The sampling values of this random reference function will be the instantaneous levels A,- from --E to +E. With an average number S of distinct instantaneous reference levels, S being a sufiiciently large number, the average discrete increment for the instantaneous reference level is thus equal to 2E/S=2ME/N. 
 Considering now that by means which will be described hereafter it is possible to produce an electrical waveform of the type shown in FIG. 1 with the random character required, one will be able to sample the function j(t) to be analyzed or more precisely a voltage waveform corresponding to this function, and simultaneously the reference waveform with linear variations will each time be sampled. This implies of course, that the time function f(t) is physically realizable and it will also be assumed that the function f(t) whose average mustbe computed is limited between positive and negative values of equal amplitudes and not higher than the amplitude E which constitutes the upper and lower limit of the reference waveform 1 shown in FIG. 1. From a given instant, N regularly separated samples will be taken one from each waveform, and for each pair of samples a comparison will be made by means which will be described hereafter between the samples of f(z) and A;, the instantaneous level of the simultaneously sampled reference waveform 1. Two distinct values may be attributed to the result of these comparisons depending on whether the sample of the amplitude of 1(1) is either smaller than or equal to A or higher than this value. If one value is normalized with respect to the other, unity may be assigned to the first binary result and the second binary result may be called a. After having performed N pairs 1-2 of measurements, by sending each result q, in an algebraic-accumulator, the latter will total I 1 at the end of the computation period. If it is asumed that a=l, the two possible values for q, are consequently +1 and 1 and the absolute value of the algebraic sum Q .cannot exceed N. 
It may be proved that the averageof f(t) can be exin a simple comparison between the two values at the. 
time of the sampling, this comparison giving a binary result. This avoids a measurement of the amplitude of the sample from the analyzed waveform and a quantization of this measurement by a number comprising several bits. Without sacrificing the precision of the measurement, a single bit may be used. to represent the value of each sample of the waveform to be analyzed and no coding is necessary, only means enabling to perform the algebraic sum of the unitary results need be provided. Moreover, the proportion factor E/N appearing in (3) may be chosen in such a way that the sum is a direct indication of the wanted average for the function (t). 
 It will be noted however that it is not absolutely essential to use the two values +1 and 1 for q and in general if a normalized value a is employed, with unity as other value, and if Q,, defines the sum of the N samples by using the two values +1 and +12, and Q the same sum when the two,values are +1 and 1, the following linear relation exists between Q and Q,,: 
 Hence, if another value than -1 is used for a, it will always be possible to compute Q intervening in (3) with the help of (4). A value of a=0 will permit to use an accumulator or counter which is displaced in one direction only since it will either receive a pulse as a result of the sampling or else it will not receive such a pulse, depending upon the binary result of the comparison. 
 If the stationary random function f(t) previously defined is a continuous variable having a continuous range of values with a probability density p(f), the time average of f(t), the cumulative distribution function of (t), is consequently given by It may also be proved that the cumulative distribution function of the average value f(t) defined by (5) shall also be given by the expression (3) previously calculated. 
 It may yet be proved that the average of the product of two random time functions f and f can also be expressed in function of Q with a proportionality factor given by showing that this average of the product can thus be obtained by the comparison with reference levels with linear slopes having random values, these two variable reference levels, one for each of the functions f and f being sta tistically independent from one another and their limits being :E and 1E, respectively. 
 This result expressed by (6) is thus a generalization of the result expressed by' (3) which gives the average of a time function by accumulating binary values. These results may be subject to a further generalization in the sense that the average of the product of any number k of random time functions can be obtained by the same process consisting in making the sum of the unitary values of q, equal either to +1 or to l in accordance with the result of k comparisons, one between each of k random waveforms and one among k random reference waveforms with a linearly variable level, these k reference waveforms being statistically independent from one another. The average of the product of the k functions will always be proportional to Q/N as in (6), Q being defined by (2), and proportional to the product of the k limiting voltages of the k reference waveforms, i.e. E E E Q/N having always a value between +1 and 1. 
 As to the way in which the value of q, should be determined in case there are more than two input functions, it has already been indicated for the case of the average of the product of two functions that there was a unique manner of assigning one or the other binary value of q, in accordance with the results of the two comparisons between each random function and its associated reference waveform. This is generally true whatever be the number k of input functions. 
 In deed, for each of the k comparisons to play a significant role in the determination of the binary value q, it is necessary that for any set of k comparisons results, a change of any one of these k results should cause a change of the resultant binary value of q Each set of results for k comparisons may be considered as a binary number with k bits. Hence, it is necessary that the 2 possible binary numbers are divided into two groups of 2' numbers, one group corresponding to a value such as +1 for q, and the other corresponding to a value such as 1 for 6 and in such a manner that in changing any one of the k digits from to 1 or from 1 to 0, as the case may be, the modified number shall pertain to the other group characterized by the other binary value for q This can be ensured by associating in one group all the binary numbers having an even number of binary digits of one type, the other group being constituted by the remaining binary numbers, i.e. having an odd number of binary digits having the said value. In this way, any change in a digit shall necessarily produce a number pertaining to the other group. 
 FIG. 2 shows by way of example how the various possible results should be grouped in case there are three functions, i.e. when k=3, a cubic representation being used for the eight possible results. As shown by FIG. 2, each of the three coordinates corresponds to one of the three digits so that the eight binary numbers from 000 to 111 occupy the eight vertices of a cube which are divided as shown in two groups of four, distinguished by white or black circles used for the codes having an even or odd number of 1s respectively. 
 While this representation with three coordinates is particularly suited to three inputs, the separation into two groups in accordance with the same principles may be accomplished whatever the number of inputs depending upon the parity of the number of 1s comprised in eachcode characterizing the results of the various k individual comparisons. For instance, if k=4, the 2 :16 codes, will be divided into two halves to determine the value of q, in the manner shown below. 
q =+1 corresponds as shown above to an even num- 14 ber of 1s and q =1 corresponds to an odd number of 1s. 
 FIG. 3 represents how the binary value of q, can be determined whatever be the number k of input functions. It has been assumed that there are five functions but the generality of the system whatever he the value of k will be readily appreciated. As represented the five input terminals at which an activating potential will appear are not depending upon the result of the corresponding comparison between the random time functions and the variable reference level foreseen for this variable, are grouped in pairs, one pair of such input terminals feeding a twoinput/one-output logical circuit such as 11 and 12. The 
circuits 11 and 12 are both exclusive-OR gates which provide an activating output voltage only when one of their two inputs is activated, and which do not provide such an activated output when none of their two inputs is activated or when both are. Then, after this first stage of logical combinations of the various input terminals, the outputs from the first stage of exclusive-OR circuits, i.e. the outputs from 11 or from 12, will be combined in pairs in the same way. As soon as the number of outputs from one stage of exclusive OR gates is odd, any input or any output from a previous stage which had 'not been associated to an exclusive-OR gate in a preceding stage as it was the odd one out, is now paired with one of these outputs whose number is odd. In the present case with five input terminals and where the outputs from 11 and 12 constitute the inputs of an exclusive-OR gate 13, the fifth input terminal cannot be paired before the output of this second stage which contains only one exclusive-OR gate. The fifth input terminal together with the output of 13 will thus constitute the inputs of the last exclusive- OR gate 14 whose output will be activated each time that the number of the five input terminals which are activated is odd, i.e. in the sixteen cases where 1, 3 or 5 input terminals are activated. An activating signal at the output of 14 may thus indicate that q, is equal to -1 and by connecting this output terminal to a logical inverter 15, the output of the latter will thus be activated for the remaining 16 combinations of input conditions,'to indicate that q, is equal to +1. 
 While this type of parallel logic will generally be preferable to determine the value of q,, a serial logic using for instance scales-of-Z to determine the parity of the codes could also be used. Inverse logical circuits could eventually be used for the realization of the logical circuit of FIG. 3, i.e. all-or-none gates in the place of each exclusive-OR gate, the all-or-none gates thus producing an activating output signal only when the two inputs are sirnultaneously activated or when none of the two is. Particularly in the case of two inputs, a mixture of gates of both types may be used, the exclusive-OR gate producing the signal corresponding to q =l, while the all-or-none gate produces the signal q,=+l. 
 As is easily verified with the help of FIG. 3, the total number of gate circuits of the type indicated is equal to k- 1. 
 Since a method has now been explained which will permit to calculate the average value of a random time function, or the average of the product of such functions, it becomes possible with the help of this method to compute correlation functions. Indeed, for the cross-correlation function F 0 of the variables f (t) and EU), it will sufiice to sample f and f as well as their respective reference waveforms at instants which differ by a time t The cross-correlation function F will thus be calculated point by point for the different n values of the correlation delay t a series of N pairs of consecutive samples being taken for the computation of each of the n points. 
 In the particular case where f corresponds to f the calculated function will be F the autocorrelation function of f FIG. 4 represents by way of example the curve of a correlation function F 0 expressed as ordinate in function of the correlation delay t as abscissa, values of' t of like sign only having been represented. This curve indicated by 16 can be traced by any appropriate means in function of the computation of the various points of the curve such as 17, this number of points 11 being for instance equal to 100. 
 The correlation functions not being necessarily restricted to one or two input functions, as indicated in relation to FIGS. 2 and 3, FIG. 5 represents by way of example a second order correlation function F 0 t which as indicated may be represented in three dimensions in the form of a correlation surface, the values of F being measured perpendicularly to the plane defined by the axis t and t Thus, for a given value 18 of the first correlation delay t between the input variables EU) and A0) and a particular value 19 of the second correlation delay t corresponding for instance to the delay between the input variables H0) and 130), a point 20 having 18 as abscissa and 19 as ordinate is defined in the plane 1 t The length 20-21 perpendicular to this plane is equal to the function F (t t corresponding to the particular values of these two delay times. This point 21, for one pair among 100 possible delay values along the two axis t and t will thus constitute one of the 100 100=10,000 points of the function F defining the surface 22. 
 Hence, the method described to calculate averages of time variables and particularly random time variables or averages of the product of such variables is of general application, since it permits not only to compute correlation functions, but also other analogous functions as will be explained in more detail in the detailed description of the digital correlator using the method already described above. These other possibilities will in particular be the computation of the first order probability distribution function, the first order probability density and it will also be explained how the described correlator may be used for the repeated computation of the autocorrelation curve in order to verify that the random time variable possesses a stationary character. 
 By referring to FIGS. 6 and 7, the latter represent the general schematic of a digital correlator permitting in particular to compute ordinary crosscorrelation functions, i.e. crosscorrelation functions of the first order, the two random functions being presented to the correlator in the form of two electrical voltages f (t) and f (t) which are present at terminals at and ar which represent the input terminals of two attenuators AT and AT respectively which are destined to match the amplitude of the two input voltages to values suited for the sampling of these two voltages following the method already explained. These attenuators may be of the type which is balanced with respect to ground and the attenuation range may for instance permit to handle random input voltages at terminals ai and at varying between 0.5 and 200 volts. 
 These two attenuators are each followed by an impedance converter indicated by and 1C respectively in FIG. 6 so as to raise the impedance level in such a way that 1C and 1C offer at their output, i.e. at the terminals i0 1 and i0 impedances which correspond for instance to 1 megohm in parallel with the reactance of a 47 picofarad capacitor. 
 On the other hand, the voltages with variable level A and B, i.e. whose value varies linearly between the two predetermined levels but with a random slope, are respectively produced by the white noise generators RG and RG which respectively control the lineraly variable level generators indicated by SG and 86 respectively and which will provide the sawtooth waveforms such as represented in FIG. 1 and whose linear slope isa random variable controlled by RG or RG These two waveforms present at terminals sg "and sg are combined with the random Waveforms to be measured and present at terminals i0 and ic by means of a programme selector. This programme selector which will not be described here, comprises an interconnecting device or field PS permitting to modify the connections between the input waveforms and the actual correlator, in accordance with the various functions which one desires to obtain. In the present case it will be assumed as indicated in FIG. 6 that the programme selector is established so that the connections of PS enable the computations of the crossconrelation function between the variables f (t) and f (t) present at the inputs of the attenuators AT and AT As indicated by the dotted line connections inside PS, the terminal fa at which function 330) is present at a suitable level, is connected by the connection ps ps' of PS to one of the inputs su of an operational amplifier SA while the terminal sg at which is present the reference level A varying linearly between two predetermined voltages and with a random slope, is connected to the second input sa of this operational amplifier by the connection ps ps' of PS. The function of this amplifier is to add the random Waveforms f (t) to the variable reference waveform A, which is equivalent to the subtraction of the reference waveform A from the waveform f (t) so, as to be able to compare these two waveforms with a fixed reference potential V and determine if the sum of f (t) and A is higher or lower than this fixed reference potential. 
 Likewise, the random variable 50) and the reference voltage B respectively present at terminals ic and sg are connected by the connections ps ps' and pr -ps1 of PS to the two input terminals SE21 and M of an operational amplifier SA identical to SA In order to increase the sensitivity of the comparison with the fixed reference voltage V the output voltage from the operational amplifier SA; is sent into a limiter amplifier CA which produces at its output an amplitude slice of the voltage which is centered around the reference voltage V applied to this limiter amplifier which also permits to increase the voltage slice and in this way the sensitivity of the comparison. 
 The limiter amplifier output voltage is sent to the input terminal so of the actual comparator SC which is fed by sampling pulses at its terminal sc and which produces a trigger pulse at its output terminal sc if the sum of the voltage f (t) and of the reference voltage A is lower than the fixed reference voltage V or alternatively a trigger pulse at its output terminal S012 if the sum of and A gives a voltage which is higher than the reference voltage V The chain for the function f (t) to be compared with the variable level reference voltage B is identical and it comprises after the operational amplifier 5A the limiter amplifier CA following by a sampling comparator 5C What precedes constitutes that part of the correlator circuit of FIGS. 6 and 7 which permits to convert the analogue signals into digital signals which will appear at terminals so and Sa in accordance with the result of the comparisons between the random waveforms f (t) and f (t) and their respective variable reference voltages A and B. 
 Before describing the remainder of the correlator circuit which is shown in FIG. 7 and which concerns only digital operations, some of the elements summarily described above will be described in more detail. 
 FIG. 8, represents the detailed circuit of an operational amplifier suitable for SA (or 8A indicated by a block in FIG. 6. The two input terminals su and sa are con- -,nected to the base of a first amplifying transistor T by the resistors R and 'R this amplifying transistor T being followed by two other amplifying transistors T and T in cascade, all these PNP transistors being operated in common emitter fashion with the collector of T returned to the base of T through feedback resistor R the three resistors R R' and R being shunted by capacitors C 0' and C respectively. Transistor T has its emitter connected to ground through resistor R and its collector connected to a negative voltage source through resistor R resistors R /R and Rq/Rg fulfilling analogous functions for the subsequent amplifying transistors T and T The base of T is biassed by a resistor R shunted by a capacitor C whose other end is connected to the collector of T an analogous combination R C connecting the collector of T to the base of T while an analogous combination R C constitutes a feedback path between the emitter of T and the base of T The base of T is biassed by .a resistor R connecting it to the negative supply pole, While rectifiers D D and D are respectively provided between the bases of T T and T and a positive pole of the supply, these connections being foreseen so as to compensate the effects of the leakage collector current I which tend to modify the base voltage in function of temperature variations. Since, as is shown by FIG. 8, the germanium diodes such as D are reversely biassed, the reverse current will also be affected by the temperature and the residual current flowing through the resistances such as R being the difference between the residual base cur- :rent of T and the inverse current passing through D there will be a certain compensation of thermal effects. 
 So that the output of the DC amplifier comprising the transistors T T and T should not be subjected to load variations able to entail distortion of the output voltage by saturation effects, FIG. 8 shows that the collector of T is coupled to the output terminal by means of a double stage amplifier comprising transistors T and T both connected as emitter follower. This connection is performed for AC by means of capacitor C connecting the collector of T to the base of T; which is a PNP transistor Whose collector is connected to the negative supply pole and the emitter to the positive pole by means of resistor R the potentiometer formed by the resistors R and R connecting the negative to the positive supply pole enabling to bias the base of T The emitter of T is directly coupled to the base of the NPN transistor T whose collector is directly connected to the positive pole while its emitter is connected to the negative pole through resistor R this emitter constituting also the output terminal of the operational amplifier. The operational amplifier described with the help of FIG. 8 may permit a voltage gain of 1200 and be designed to produce this gain over a frequency range extending from 200 c.p.s. to 20 kc./ s. The feedback resistor R and the input resistors R and R are relatively small compared to the input impedance of the actual amplifier. Such an amplifier may limit the error percentage to 0.2% for the analogue addition of the waveforms such as f (t) and A. 
 FIG. 9 represents the limiter amplifier which can be used for CA, (or CA in FIG. 6. It comprises a first amplifying PNP transistor T whose base is fed by the input signal through a limiting network comprising the series resistors R and R between the input terminal and the base of T their common point being connected to the comparison voltage V through two diodes D D branched in parallel with opposite polarities. The voltage produced at the input of the limiting amplifier of FIG. 9, i.e., at the emitter of T in the operational amplifier of FIG. 8, may be of the order of 4 volts and the two diodes D D branched in parallel will slice the input waveform around the reference potential V equally limiting the positive and negative amplitudes of the signal to i0.2 volt, voltage produced across rectifiers D or D when they are conductive. This sliced waveform is amplified by transistor T whose base is biassed by the potentiometer comprising resistors R and R in series between the negative and the positive supply pole, and whose collector and emitter are respectively connected to the negative and positive poles by the resistances R and R the latter being shunted by capacitor C This transistor T operated in common emitter fashion feeds a transistor T operated in like manner but which is of the NPN type, the resistors R R and the capacitor C corresponding to R R and G, for the PNP transistor T These two complementary transistors constitute a DC voltage amplifier permitting to provide at the collector of T; a voltage of the order of 4 volts which will again be sliced by an output voltage limiter comprising the series resistance R connecting the collector of T 7 to the output terminal going to the actual comparison device, output terminal which is connected to the fixed reference voltage V by a pair of shunt rectifiers D D analogous to D D Thus, the output voltage will finally be limited to $0.2 volt around the fixed voltage V In this manner, the output voltage of the limiter amplifier CA or CA and Whose circuit is represented in FIG. 9 is equal to 0.4 volt and thus represents with a tenfold magnification the portion of the input waveform applied to the circuit of FIG. 9 which extends between +0.02 volt and 0.02 volt around the fixed reference voltage V Hence, only the interesting zone is used and the limiting amplifier of FIG. 9 permits to obtain an increase of the resolution power of the comparator device sc or SC which is essentially constituted by a diiferential amplifier. 
 FIG. 10 represents this comparator device which may be used for SC, (or SC in FIG. 6 and which will permit to produce digital signals characterizing the sign of the difference between the random voltage f (t) to be measured and its variable level reference voltage A. The output signal coming from the limiter amplifier of FIG. 9 is applied to the base (terminal sc of a PN-P transistor T connected as emitter follower with its collector directly connected to the negative supply pole and its emitter connected to the positive pole through the resistor R this transistor being used as buffer amplifier. Another exactly analogous buffer amplifier and comprising PNP transistor T and the emitter resistor R21 receives the fixed bias V at its base in order to be able to compare the input waveform to the latter. In this manner, the eventual modifications in the characteristic of the buffer stages mutually compensates one another without affecting the result of the comparison between the useful part of the voltage f (t) -A and the fixed reference voltage V In relation to the compenastion of the DC drift of the operational amplifier SA (or 8A this amplifier may eventually be realized as a DC amplifier, i.e. without a capacitive coupling such as that constituted by the capacitor C for the detailed circuit illustrated in FIG. 8. If such a DC operational amplifier is used, it will be possible to largely compensate its drift in what concerns the comparison to be effected by the circuit of FIG. 10 if the base of transistor T (FIG. 10) is not fed directly by the reference voltage V but by the output terminal of a limiter amplifier, with respect to this fixed reference potential V and itself fed by an operational amplifier whose two inputs are short-cireuited. In other words, the base of T may be fed by the cascade combinations of the circuits of FIGS. 8 (modified into a DC amplifier) and 9, these circuits being absolutely identical to the circuits feeding the base of T but for the operational amplifier (FIG. 8) destined to feed the base of T the free ends of resistors R and R shall be directly connected to ground, the output terminal of the limiter amplifier of FIG. 9 (junction point of D and D destined to bias transistor T of FIG. 10 being directly connected to its base. 
 The signal representing the difference between the function f (t) and the reference variable A or at least the critical portion of this difference around the fixed reference level V and appearing at the emitter of T is applied to the base of the NPN transistor T constituting with the NPN transistor T whose base is fed by the emitter of T the first stage of a differential amplifier. The emitters of transistors T and T are directly connected to the terminals such as sa or S623 depending on whether it concerns the comparator device SC or 8C and to this terminal are applied narrow sampling pulses, in the negative direction, so as to render transistors T and T conductive. This negative current pulse applied to the emitters of T and T will tend to lower the collector potentials of these transistors, these collectors being connected to the positive pole through respective resistors R and R The potential drop at the collector of T or T will be the greater the more the signal at its base will be positive. These negative signals at the collectors of T and T produced by the sampling pulses applied=to their emitter will be further differentiated by a second stage of the differential amplifier comprising the PNP transistors T and T whose bases are connected to the collectors of T and T through resistors R and R respectively, their emitters being connected to the positive pole by the common resistor R while their collectors are connected to the negative pole by the respective individual resistors R and R This second stage of the differential amplifier will increase the discrimination, the more so since the collector of each of the transistors T and T is coupled to the base of the other transistor through the respective capacitors C and C In this way the preponderance of a negative signal at the collector of T and sent to the base of T will have for effect to produce a positive signal at the collector of T which, applied by capacitor C on the contrary opposes itself to the action of a residual negative signal at the collector of T In this way, in accordance with the polarity of the voltage difference between the waveforms f (t) +A on the one hand, and the fixed reference voltage V on the other hand, the narrow sampling pulse applied to the emitters of T and T will produce a positive pulse at the collector of T or of T depending on whether the analogue sum f (t) +A is lower or higher than the fixed reference voltage V A pulse will thus appear either at terminal sc or sc depending upon the sign of the difference between f (t) and A or between 3(1) and B. 
 The sampling pulses applied to terminal sc or sc may be applied at different instants and this may be controlled following the pre-established programme in accordance with the nature of the function to be computed. In the present example, the computation of the crosscorrelation function F 0 between f (t) and EU) is assumed and hence, as it will be described hereinafter in more detail by referring to the logical digital circuit of FIG. 7, channel A, i.e. that corresponding to the reference waveform A, will be sampled by pulses having a recurrence period it times that of the sampling pulses applied to channel B, n representing the desired number of points for the crosscorrelation function. In this manner, waveform f (t) +A may be sampled in channel A, waveform f (t) +B may be successively sampled in channel B so as to produce samples coming from channels A and B which are separated by the different times separating the sampling of the two functions, i.e. O, t 2t 3t 4t (n-t)t t representing the delay increment and also the period of the sampling pulses for channel B, while m represents the sampling pulse period of channel A. 
 FIG. 12 represents various waveforms illustrating the operation of the elements such as SA CA and SC detailed in FIGS. 8, 9 and 10 respectively. 
 The first waveform represents the random time function 130?) which is applied to terminal ra of 8A while the second waveform corresponds to the reference waveform A whose level varies linearly between the predetermined voltages E and E but with linear slopes which have a random value for each variation between the two extreme values 'E and E this waveform appearing at terminal S612. 
 The third waveform represents the analogue combination of these two waveforms and appearing at the output terminal sa of the operational amplifier, this third waveform indicating also with dotted horizontal lines the reference levels of the input limiter of circuit CA of FIG. 9, around the fixed reference potential V The fourth waveform represents the amplified signal appearing at the collector of T (FIG. 9) and which is thus limited between voltages of the order of i2 volts. This fourth waveform also represents by horizontal dotted lines the limiter levels, offered by the output limiter comprising diodes D and D again around the fixed reference potential V The output waveform which will be applied to the terminalsuch as sa of the comparator comprising the differential amplifier and detailed in FIG. 10, will thus pass from the level of +0.2 volt to that of 0.2 volt as indicated by the fifth waveform. 
 The sixth waveform represents the sampling pulses which are applied at terminal so of the circuit SC in channel A, while the last waveform indicates the sampling pulses which are applied at terminal se of circuit SC As indicated, the pulses have a duration of the order of 0.5 microsecond, but while those applied to terminal sc have a recurrence period of 20 microseconds, those which are applied to channel A, i.e., to terminal S613, have a period hundred times higher, i.e., of 2 milliseconds, a pulse at S613 coinciding only with one pulse among one hundred consecutive pulses applied to terminal sc FIG. 11 represents the variable reference level generator such as SC or 8C of FIG. 6. These generators are fed by random noise sources such as white noise sources provided by generators RG and RG (FIG. 6) respectively and as shown by FIG. 11, the level generator controlled by this random noise source is constituted by two circuits BSP and BSN which are similar except for the fact that all the transistors (PNP) of circuit ESP and shown in detail in FIG. 11 have the inverse polarity (NPN) in the BSN circuit which is solely represented in the form of a block, and this change of polarity is also valid for the rectifiers included in ESP and also for the supply sources which pass from the positive to the negative and vice versa. Each of the circuits ESP and BSN is essentially constituted by a so-called bootstrap circuit which comprises as active element the PNP transistors T and T the bootstrap circuit being fed by a noise amplifier whose active element is the PNP transistor T and an output potential of the bootstrap circuit included in BSP is also applied to a voltage level detecting device whose active element is the PNP transistor T The bootstrap circuit such as that of BSP comprising transistors T and T will permit to obtain voltages varying linearly in function of time as represented in FIG. 1 but for one sense of variation only, the other sense of variation being provided by the bootstrap circuit making part of the complementary network BSN. The two networks are associated by means of a bistable circuit BS and in a manner which will be described hereafter. 
 By assuming that the circuit of FIG. 11 represents the variable level generator SG with random slope of FIG. 6, the noise generator RG (FIG. 6) which feeds the input terminal sg will see its noise voltage transmitted to the base of transistor T by means of the capacitor C this PNP transistor having its emitter connected to a positive voltage source through resistor R and its collector directly connected to the negative supply pole to which is also connected the base of T through a biassing resistor R E is the amplified noise voltage which is applied to the collector of T through the diode D in series with resistor R and this noise voltage will determine the negative slopes of the reference waveforms varying linearly between two predetermined levels and such as represented by the waveform 1 in FIG. 1. 
 Indeed, if it is assumed that the bistable circuit BS has just been placed in its 1 condition in a manner which will appear hereafter and that in this condition the out put signal provided by BS is a high potential, e.g. 0 volt, if the extreme potentials of the circuit of FIG. 11 are 0 and 6 volts, the level rise at the output of BS (FIG. 13) which passes from --6 volts to 0 volt for instance will be transmitted to the base of T through capacitor C shunted by resistor R which will entail the blocking of transistor T whose emitter is connected to a fixed potential point E which may for instance be the highest supply potential, i.e. 0 volt. The bootstrap circuit capacitor and which will be charged linearly so as to produce the negative slopes of the FIG. 1 waveform is capacitor C which is branched between the emitter and collector of T in series with resistor R If it is assumed that at the moment when bistable circuit BS is triggered into its 1 condition, thereby blocking transistor T capacitor C is at this moment discharged, this discharge having been accomplished through the emitter-collector path of T in series with R the blocking of T will initiate a new charge of C and the charge current will be determined by the instantaneous voltage present at the emitter of T and by the resistance in series with capacitor C If it is assumed that the forward resistance of D and that of R are small with respect to the resistance of R and by assuming on the other hand that E',, is equal to volt, it will be the negative noise voltage E instantaneously present at the emitter of T which will thus determine a charge current equal to E /R This initial charge current at the moment when T is blocked will begin to charge capacitor C whose potential at the plate which is not directly connected to E will become negative and this lowering of potential will be transmitted to the base of transistor T through resistor R This transistor T whose collector is directly connected to the negative pole of the supply operates as emitter follower, its emitter being connected to the positive pole through resistor R and in the manner conventional for a bootstrap circuit, it acts as buffer amplifier presenting an input impedance which can be considered as substantially infinite by the rest of the circuit and an out put impedance which can be considered as practically nil, this for a unitary voltage gain. The input voltage variation at the base of T will be integrally found as output voltage at the emitter and it is returned to the end of resistor R distant from the collector of T through capacitor C whose capacity is sufficiently high so that the transmission of the voltage variation can be considered as instantaneous. Hence, if one may assume that transistor T does not load the charge circuit of capacitor C and that on the other hand any voltage variation on capacitor C i.e. any voltage variation at the end of resistor R which is directly connected to the collector of T and to the base of T is instantaneously translated into an identical voltage variation at the other end of this resistor R the current in the latter remains constant. The current flowing in R and C is also constant and remains equal to its initial value E /R From the blocking of T the rise of this current produces a potential drop across resistor R and the negative pulse transmitted by T and C to the anode of diode D will immediately entail the blocking of the latter, the charge circuit of C being practically instantaneously isolated from the noise source amplified by T and of which an instantaneous random value E Will have served to determine the constant charge current of C and in this way the slope of the negative voltage variation at the plate of C which is not directly connected to E This linearly decreasing voltage variation across capacitor C appears at the emitter of T and also at the output terminal to which it is transmitted through diode D biassed as indicated. This diode D is conductive during this linear descent since the potential at the output of BS is high and it is connected to the output of sg common to ESP and to BSN, by means of resistor R During this linear descent, the high potential at the 1 output of BS being also applied in the circuit BSN to a transistor (not shown) corresponding to T in BSP but which is of the NPN type and whose emitter is biassed to a negative voltage E (not shown in FIG. 11), this high potential will have for effect to render the NPN transistor corresponding to T conductive in such a way that the BSN capacitor corresponding to C is discharged through a resistor corresponding to R As'the latter has a relatively small value, the discharge of this capacitor corresponding to C is rapid, and more rapid particularly than the linear descent of the voltage at the emitter of T Hence, the voltage at the emitter of the corresponding transistor in BSN being more negative, the BSN diode corresponding to D and whose cathode is connected to the anode of the latter due to the polarity inversion of the circuit BSN with respect to the circuit BSP, is blocked during the whole of the linear descent of the output voltage. 
 When the voltage at the emitter of T reaches a value near a threshold voltage E which biasses the emitter of the PNP transistor T diode D whose cathode is connected to the emitter of T and whose anode is connected to the base of T which is also connected to the positive supply pole by resistor R will become conductive like transistor T which will produce a positive trigger pulse at its collector connected to the negative supply pole through resistor R This trigger pulse will be used to trigger bistable circuit BS into its 0 condition. This will entail the passage of the output voltage from BS which is used to control the transistor such as T to a more negative value rendering the PNP transistor T conductive. On the other hand, the corresponding NPN transistor in BSP will be blocked. From this instant, the capacitor in BSN corresponding to C in ESP and which has been discharged to the level of its reference potential E will receive a constant charge current whose amplitude will depend on the instantaneous noise voltage present at the emitter of the NPN transistor in BSN and corresponding to T This current will permit a sudden voltage rise at the terminals of the BSN capacitor corresponding to C in BSP in such a manner as to reach the voltage E which is at that moment the output voltage from the reference voltage generator of FIG. 11 with linear variations. 
 FIG. 13 represents the waveforms appearing at the emitters of transistor T in ESP and of the corresponding NPN transistor in BSN. The waveform at the emitter of T is indicated with full lines while that of the emitter at the complementary transistor is indicated in dotted lines. From the passage of bistable BS to the 0 condition, the output waveform of this bistable indicated below the voltage variations at the emitters of the transistors such as T will entail the rapid discharge of capacitor C and the linear charge of the corresponding capacitor in BSN with a voltage increase which will progressively pass from E the minimum value, to E the maximum value. When the control voltage at the output of BS passes to its low value, diode D becomes blocked while the corresponding diode in BSN becomes conductive allowing the positive linear voltage variation at the output of the circuit of FIG. 11. Only the linear variations between E and E positive and negative, are thus transmitted to the output of the variable reference voltage generator circuit. At the transition times, small voltage peaks corresponding to the vertical parts between E and E and between B and E (FIG. 13) may reach the output but these variations corresponding to the transition and to the reversal of the state of conductivity of the diodes such as D are very rapid (1 microsecond at most) for linear variations with a duration varying in a random manner and for instance of the order of 2 milliseconds and for a sampling period at the minimum equal to 20 microseconds, in such a way that their elimination does not set a problem. 
 If desired, the output voltages can be adjusted by deriving the voltages not through the amplifier comprising the transistor such as T which creates the action essential to the bootstrap circuit but with the help of a separate unitary voltage gain amplifier whose input will be branched on a tapping point of resistor R The passage from a positive slope to a negative slope and vice versa may be performed with the help of any appropriate threshold detector. For instance, it will be possible to replace the simple threshold detecting transistor T by a more complex arrangement using a blocking oscillator to cause the triggering of BS. 
 It is thus seen that the circuit of FIG. 11 permits to create the reference waveform with linear variation between two predetermined voltages E and E these'variations alternately changing direction and having a random slope. 
 FIG. 7 represents the whole of the digital part of the correlator and destinedto cooperate with the input circults of FIG. 6. As previously described, these circuits permit to deliver a pulse to one or the other of two output points such as se or sc depending on whether the random input function such as h is larger or alternatively equal or smaller than a reference voltage whose level varies linearly with a random slope between two predeter mined limits, i.e. the variable such as A. The same result is also obtained for the variables f and B and produces the appearance of a pulse either at terminal se or at terminal sc These four terminals have also been reproduced in FIG. 7 where it is seen that they constitute the inputs of staticizing bistables, BS for terminals se and BS for the terminals sc In this way, if a pulse occurs at terminal se BS will be placed into its condition f A, the condition f gA being obtained for a pulse appearing at sa and analogous conditions being obtained for BS in relation to the appearance of a pulse at one of the two terminals so These pulses will appear in synchronism with the sampling pulses appearing at terminals sc or sc terminals which are also reproduced in FIG. 7. 
 A pilot pulse generator (not shown) is provided to produce pulses t t t;, and I; waveforms of which are indicated at the bottom of FIG. 7 to the right of the terminals. The t pulses are positive, have a duration of about 1 microsecond and as indicated have a period of microseconds. They are used in particular to produce various phases of logical operations by sending them in a counter-of-4 FCT serving as pulse distributor and producing four series of output pulses at the terminals indicated by t t t and I the corresponding pulse waveforms represented at the level of these terminals each having a duration of 5 microseconds and a period of 4 5=20 microseconds but being phase shifted in time so as to define four distinct phases. 
 It is during the second phase, i.e. that defined by t that the sampling pulses for the A(SC and B(SC channels are produced. As indicated in FIG. 7, a narrow sampling pulse t synchronized with the l pulses but having a substantially shorter duration, of the order of one half microsecond and of negative polarity is conditioned by a gate P The various gates represented, in particular in FIG. 7, by circles are either OR gates or AND gates depending on whether digit 1 or a higher digit corresponding to the number of inputs of the gate is inscribed inside the circle. The 2 inscribed in the circle of gate P thus indicates that it concerns an AND gate associating the pulses t with the pulses t;; of the second phase to produce a narrow and negative sampling pulse located at the beginning of this phase and appearing at terminals S623 for the sampling of the B channel of FIG. 6 which will thus lead to the appearance of a corresponding pulse at one of the inputs of bistable BS and this every 20 microseconds. 
 The t pulses are admitted through the AND gate P through the delay counter HCT and this under the control of the I pulses defining the fourth phase. During this phase of 5 microseconds, the HCT circuit which is a counter able to occupy 100 positions from ()0 to 99 will be advanced by one step and this counter will thus perform a complete cycle through all its 100 positions at the end of a delay of l00 0.02=2 milliseconds. 
 While the distributor or counter FCT can be realized by four bistables coupled at the end of one another to permit a cyclic operation, the delay counter I-ICT able to define 100 phases of 20 microseconds in a period of 2 milliseconds, will preferably be realized by two series of four bistables, each of these four bistables permitting by a coding arrangement to define 10 states and one cycle of the first unitary series of four bistables producing a carry signal towards the second'series of four bistables defining the tens digit so as to modify the latter by one unit. Such circuits are classical and will not be described here in more detail; As indicated in FIG. 7, two particular states among the possible ones of the delay counter HCT are signalled to certain other circuits by the appearance of a signal on the corresponding terminal such as hct at which a signal of 20 microseconds will appear every two milliseconds during the time that HCT is in its 00 condition. This signal will authorize the AND gate P for the admission of the pulse appearing at terminal se towards terminal sc Channel A will thus be sampled only once every two milliseconds, i.e., once for 100 samples of channel B. This corresponds to the fact that the 11:100 points of the correlation function are computed in parallel by the circuits of FIGS. 6 and 7. During each period of two milliseconds thus corresponding to one sample for each of the 100 points of the curve, channels A and B are sampled once simultaneously during the interval of 20 microseconds corresponding to state 00 of the delay counter HCT, i.e., to a correlation delay equal to 0 for the correlation function. During the following interval of 20 microseconds, channel A will not be sampled by a pulse at terminal so and the preceding sample is kept in memory by the bistable BS but channel B will again be sampled, the result of this sample being stored in bistable BS For the states of the delay counter HCT going from 02 to 99, the operations will occur as during the time of 20 microseconds corresponding to state 01 and it will only be upon a new 00 state of HCT, that bistable BS will store the result of a new sample of channel A. During 100 successive intervals of 20 microseconds, the same condition of BS will thus be compared to that of BS which will change every 20 microseconds so as to determine a value of q, for each of the 100 points of the correlation function. 
 Contrary to the embodiment of FIG. 3 using exclusive OR gates controlled by single binary signals, in FIG. 7 the determination of q, is performed starting from a complementary representation of the binary results of the two comparisons of channels A and B, that is to say that the two complementary outputs from the bistables BS and BS are used to control four AND gates P /P whose outputs are respectively activated when the states are present. In the first two cases, a signal at the output of P or P passes through the OR gate P to control the AND gate P while in the other two cases a signal at the output of P or of P, traverses the OR gate P to authorize the AND gate P The gates P and P are both controlled by the pulses t and t in such a way that during the second phase of 5 microseconds out of each period of 20 microseconds the t pulse will pass through P or P to produce a pulse corresponding to the value of q As indicated in FIG. 7, a pulse at the output of P corresponds to a value +1 for q while a pulse at the output of P corresponds to a value 1. 
 As indicated, the outputs from P and P feed a third counter BCT which serves to store the precedingly computed value of a particular point among the 100 points of the correlation function and to modify this value either by the addition of +1 or by the addition of --1. If for each ofthe n points of the correlation function it is de sired to take N pairs of samples, that is to say that the function and the function f are each sampled N times, counter BCT should thus beable to characterize N distinct conditions, e.g., N=l0 as the maximum possible value. t