Multichannel correlator system 
US-3514585-A
Boeing Co
1970-05-26
https://patents.google.com/patent/US3514585A/en
7 Sheets-Sheet l Filed April 4, 1966 BYM A frog/vf V5 Myz, 1970 K. H. NoRswoRTHY 3,514,585 
MULTICHANNEL CORRELATOR SYSTEM '7 Sheets-Sheet 5 Filed April 4, 1966 C m 2R M E m .IL VL PH N- j IV mls m E llr E s Y .um 
MyIZG, 1970 K. H. NoRswoR'rl-w 3,514,585 
I MULTICHANNEL CORRELATOR SYSTEM Filed April 4, 1966 '7 Sheets-Sheet 4 I I I I I *S Y t f a www $5275? --.I 
May 26, 1970 K. H. NoRswoRTHY 3,514,585 
MULTICHANNEL CORRELATOR SYSTEM Filed April 4, 196e 7 Sheets-Sheet 5 ATTORNEYS Int. Cl. G06f 15/34 ULS.` Cl. 23S-181 40 Claims ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE A multichannel time correlation computer is disclosed which includes means for efficiently establishing an array of time delay differentials between signal representations to be multiplied in deriving correlation coefficients. The disclosed combinations of circuit features enable the real time presentation of a large number of simultaneous, continuously produced correlation coetlicient signals which collectively represent the correlation function, so that it can `be observed as it changes with time. The array of time delay differentials enables conservation of multiplier circuitry..Specic improvements are disclosed in arrangements for establishing the time delay differential arrays and for multiplying signal values in analog and digital form. 
CROSS-REFERENCE This application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 256,187 led Jan. 17, 1963, now abandoned titled Multichannel Correlator System. 
BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to systems for computing correlation functions, and rnore particularly to a multichannel instrument for producing continuous representations of time correlation functions by simultaneously computing time correlation coefficients for a multiplicity of different delay times. It further relates to systems for cornputation of Fourier transformations and similar functions, thereby prviding the capability of obtaining power spectra and cross power spectra directly from a continuously presented correlation function. In addition, the invention encompasses certain specific improvements in time correlation instruments and the like, including improved techniques and devices for sampling input signals for both high and low frequencies. 
 In general, correlation studies produce information concerning the `relationship between two functions or variables, such as two electrical signals (cross-correlation), or the relationship of a function to itself when displaced or delayed -by known amounts (autocorrelation). In electronics, for example, correlation techniques are .useful in determining what effect noise produced at a selected point in a system has upon the output of that system, i.e. determining the correlation between output noise and noise produced at an internal point. Correlation studies,` are by no means restricted to electronics, however. Increasing use is being made of correlation techniques in studying a wide variety of timeand spacevarying phenomena, for example in investigating acoustical and meteorological problems, in aerodynamics, radar, space communications, medical research, ocean wave phenomena,` sesmology and other geophysical studies. Correlation techniques are used to detect common characteristics of signals obscured -by presence of uncorrelated noise,` and the` like, which statistically averages out to zero or a constant when averaged over a sufficient period of time. 
 hired States Patent O ICC  While the discussion will hereafter proceed on the basis of time correlation functions only, some of the techniques herein developed are applicable to space correlation studies as well. The well-known formula for the time correlation function of any two time-varying signals S1(t) and S2(t) is where 1- is a time delay parameter, i.e. a selected amount of time delay occurring after the time instant t. Thus the time correlation function is a function Vof time delay parameter 1- and corresponds to the long term average of the product of two time signals S1(t) and S2(t) multiplied together after a time delay -r has been applied to one. The valve of this function for any particular value of r is termed the correlation coeicient. Such a function is useful because it contains information on the amount of signal which is common to both S1(t) and S20). If signals S1(t) and S2(t) are completed unrelated (in the time domain) the correlation function will be zero for all values of T; but if they are related by common frequency components the time correlation function will be dependent on a composite of the correlation components. In such applications the function is referred to as a crosscorrelation function. 
 Autocorrelation is a special case of the above, where signals S1(t) and S2(t) are identical, that is where the signal is delayed with respect to itself by amount r: 
 11 LitgTLT islamici-adr (2) Autocorrelation is useful in indicating how the value of signals S1(t) at some time (I+-r) is related to its value at time t. This is useful in statistical problems and may be shown to contain essentially the same information about the signal as the (frequency) power spectrum (i.e. a plot of power spectral density versus frequency). 
 Instruments have heretofore been constructed for computing time correlation functions, operating on the principle of implementing the above formulae. That is, they have included means for delaying one input signal with respect to another, multiplying the signals together, and averaging the product over a period of time. Such instruments are of two general classes: the continuous input type and the sampling type. In the former type of instrument the means for establishing delay between continuous input signals usually comprises means for recording or storing one signal on a magnetic tape or drum and repeating the same back after a selected length of time of transit between recording and pickup heads. Acoustical delay devices have also been used in such instruments. While this type of instrument has advantages for some applications, it involves high costs attending complicated recording and pickup devices and necessary compensations because of distortions due to frequency response characteristics of magnetic tape recorders or other delay instruments used, and for other reasons. 
 Correlator instruments of the sampling type generally implement the following statistical forms of the above integration formulae for the cross-correlation and autocorrelation functions, respectively: 
 1 k=K (f): (p11 Ililnt 2K kK SiQSIUk-l-T) (4) where 810k) and S2(tk+1) are signal samples taken at times tk and tk-z-r. 
While these formulae dene the time correlation function, the correlation coeicient defined above represents their solution for a selected amount of delay r. Previous correlation instruments, Whether of one type or the other, have been primarily instruments for computing and recording correlation coecients one at a time for different increasing or decreasing amounts of delay, thereby constructing the correlation function from a serie-s of discrete solutions thereof. This represented a cumbersome and time-consuming procedure due to the necessity for operation of the instrument through a complete cycle for each value of delay time selected. The procedure became burden'somely slow when long delay times 1- were required. In an attempt to overcome this last-mentioned disadvantage a multichannel instrument was proposed wherein a group of correlation coeliicients representing one set of delay times T was computed during one cycle of operation, then another group corresponding to a different set of delay times during a succeeding cycle, and so on until the correlation function was constructed fragmentally. Howevera the very necessity for changing the settings of delay times in the instrument between operating cycles imposed operating delays and inconvenience. Moreover, by the nature of such a method the different groups of correlation coeicients were not taken from the identical excursion of signal, and thereby precluded accurate analysis of nonrepeating or random variables which changed during the computation procedure. A purpose of the present invention is to provide a system avoiding these disadvantages. 
 Other disadvantages and limitations of such prior art systems overcome by the present invention include a certain lack of flexibility occasioned by restrictions irnposed on the selection of delay times -used for each group of computations, inability to handle either vary high or very low frequency input signal components, and inaccuracies in the sampling techniques employed. Of greatest importance, however, is the fact that none of these prior instruments was capable of generating a continuous analog representation of a time-correlation function in its entirety, nor of generating the same concurrently with incidence of input signals, whether for utilization or for immediate continuous display and observation. 
 Correlation techniques are closely related to power spectrum studies both practically and mathematically, giving some of the same infor-mation about variables or signals. IIt is well known that the power spectrum P(w) of a single function or signal is the Fourier transform of its auto-correlation function, according to the following formula: 
Similarly, the cross-power spectrum C(w) of two signals whose cross-correlation function is 12(r), is: 
 One method for obtaining power spectra or crosspower spectra has been to compute the Fourier transform of a previously obtained correlation function by digital computing techniques, or the like, involving rather extensive and time-consuming treatment of information. Other well-known means exist for obtaining power spectra and cross-power spectra independently of correlation functions, namely spectral analyzers and the like. 
 However, no previous instrument was economically suitable for simultaneously computing the correlation function for a sufficiently large number of time delays 1- to permit instantaneous and continuous determination of the entire power spectrum or cross-power spectrum of signals or for generating these spectra without necessity for separately computing a succession of Fourier transforms. This invention provides an instrument adapted for use in systems having this capability. 
 Accordingly, it is a further and primary object of this invention to provide an instrument for substantially simultaneously computing correlation coeflicients for a multiplicity of different delay times, thereby continuously generating substantially the complete correlation function, to thereby make the instrument well suited for use in a system for the coincident and continuous generation or computation of the corresponding (frequency) power spectrum based on the computed correlation function. 
 Another important object hereof is to provide in such an instrument the capability of computing a large number of correlation coeicients, with minimum apparatus requirements, thus permitting achievement of economical compact and easily maintained systems for generating continuous representations of correlation functions. 
 A further object is to provide an instrument capable of computing correlation functions for time delays ranging from negative to positive values. Y 
 Another object hereof is to provide a. time correlation computer in which, by appropriate selection of values of delay time 'r, the computations may be centered about any selected portion of a correlation curve. A related object is to provide such an instrument, which permits varying the extent of the range over which a correlation function may -be computed. 
 A further object is to provide such an instrument which is adaptable to permit computing simultaneously therein the respective correlation functions of different pairs of input signals. 
 An additional highly important object is to provide a time correlation instrument with means permitting sampling a signal or signals at high sampling rates, with computation delay times 1- as long as may be desired, and capable of handling a range of input signal frequencies as broad as may be desired. 
 A related object hereof is to provide in one embodiment of the invention a multichannel instrument capable of handling much higher input signal frequencies, and in another embodiment much lower input signal frequencies, than was possible heretofore in a time correlation computer. 
 A further object of the present invention is to provide a multichannel instrument which makes use of digital components such as binary shift registers. 
 An additional object of the present invention is to provide an improved multichannel correlator making use of digital components and wherein the product rate is readily increased for those applications wherein A1- is fixed by application requirements. 
 A further object of the present invention is to provide improved multiplication circuits for receiving a pair of multi-bit binary signals and providing an analog output signal which is proportional to the product of the two binary input signals. 
 Another object of the present invention is to provide a multichannel correlator system using digital techniques which are readily implemented through the use of multichannel shift registers, magnetic core storage units, or a magnetic drum for producing Cartesian product patterns of delays. 
 Still another object of the invention is to provide improved electronic time correlation instrument circuit arrangements which are well suited to transistorization and miniaturization. 
 The invention is herein discussed primarily in terms of its application to sampling type correlators, but it should be understood that most of its features also apply to continuous input type correlators. The necessary correspondence between the sampling type correlator and continuous input type correlator will be obvious to those skilled in the art. 
 To achieve the above and related objects a system according to this invention intermittently samples each input signal a selected number of times, delays the set of samples of one signal by predetermined amounts with relation `to those of the other signal, and applies both the delayed and undelayed samples to multiplying means adapted to produce the Cartesian product thereof in terms of circuit values (Le. voltages or currents). The Cartesian product of the two sets of signal samples as thus derived is herein defined as the total set of products of all samplesin one set multiplied individually by all samples of the other set. The multiplying means thus produces a plurality of output products equal in number to the .product of the numbers of samples in the respective sets. Because these individual output products correspond effectively to different predetermined amounts of time delay r, it will be evident that a large number and range of delay times may be achieved in `short order by the described combination of sampling and multiplying means. Computation of the time correlation function of the two signals is completed by time averaging each of the Cartesian product circuit values (which may vary with time) as the intermittent sampling and Cartesian multiplying operations are cyclically repeated in operation of the system. The `output from the `time averaging means comprises a set of ;voltages or currents each representing the correlation coeicient for a different value of delay time T, and which thereby collectively represent the time correlation function of the two signals at any instant during system operation. Such `output may be suitably indicated, recorded or otherwise utilized as now t be discussed. 
 The availability of the complete correlation function livein the form of continuous output voltages or currents representative of the correlation coefficients makes possible the simultaneous computation of power spectra. For this purpose such voltages or currents can be individually fed as inputs to a power spectrum generator. 
 Additional features of the invention reside in certain disclosed means for sampling input signals and for delaying and` pairing for multiplication the samples thus obtained, such means being suited especially for signals comprising high frequency components. This portion of the system in its preferred form employs two sets of sampling gates of improved construction, one set for each input signal. In response to timing control means the gates in one set are individually actuated to sample one input signal at successively delayed points of time during each operating cycle. Following such sampling of one signal the individual gates in the other set are successively actuated to sample the other signal. The individual samples from the second signal are respectively paired with and multiplied by the immediately preceding samples from the rst signal, thereby to produce a plurality of products, respectively corresponding to different delay times r, equal in number to the product of the numbers of gates in therespective sets. As the gating and multiplying cycles are repeated the cyclically produced products are individually time-averaged to produce continuously a multiplicity of output currents or voltages representative of computed correlation coefficients and which collectively represent the correlation function. 
 This unique sampling and multiplying arrangement, which is achievable with minimum circuitry, constitutes one of the chief features of the computer system offering increasing advantage the higher the required number of correlation coefficients. In this regard, it will be observed that the required number of sampling gates (and related circuitry) is only a fraction of the number of different time delays 1 computed, since the latter number as already mentioned is equal to the product of the respective numbers of sampling gates in the two sets. Thus if fortyeight different time delays 'r are required, they can be obtained according to this invention with only sixteen sampling gates, for example, four in one set and twelve inthe other, whereas prior systems would have required forty-nine channels to produce the same number. 
 In a second embodiment, sampling and delaying means `especially adapted for input signals having relatively low frequency components comprises means for sampling each input signal at least once during each system cycle, and a plurality of means for storing the individual samples over time periods spanning at least several cycles. Selection means pair these samples, one sample of each signal in each pair, in the different possible combinations for multiplication. The members of each pair are of different ages, having been stored for different lengths of time, and the relative ages vary from pair to pair to establish a suitable"` array of time delays r as in the embodiment previously described. A maximum number of such pairs are simultaneously presented to the multiplying means, the number being determined by the number of different time delays r obtainable from the available number of stored samples. An additional increment of delay is added t0 each of the stored samples each cycle at the Same time that a multiplication takes place. This embodiment thus differs from the first in the fact that the different computation delays r are estabished from two bases of time diversity, namely original derivation of the samples at different times, and repeated seelction of the same stored samples after different periods of storage for use in different sample pairs. It also differs from the iirst embodiment in the fact that the sampling and delaying operation spans several cycles while multiplication takes place once each cycle. Longer delay times may therefore be obtained, thus extending the lower end of the useful signal frequency spectrum of the system. An important advantage of such an arrangement is increased low-frequency capability without necessity for greatly increasing the time constants of the averaging circuits in the correlation coeflicient output channels. 
 The inventive concepts are further embodied in a system utilizing digital components for obtaining the advantages noted above. In this embodiment the two input signals are first applied to analog-to-digital converters for periodic sampling and conversion to digital information. The digitizing rate of the first converter for one signal is fixed by the frequency of a clock pulse generator, while the digitizing rate of the other is set at a frequency of f/N where N is equal to the number of words or stages in a shift register coupled with the output of the rst converter. The output of the second converter is applied to an M stage shift register having a shift rate of f/N. On each Nth clock pulse the contents of the N stage shift register are transferred to an N stage temporary lstorage unit. The contents of the temporary storage unit are then matched with the various stages of the M stage register and applied to a plurality of multiplying circuits disposed intermediate the temporary storage unit and the output averaging circuits. The system includes improved multiplying circuit arrangements providing pulse width-pulse height modulation, binary weighting of a width modulated pulse, and digital combination of paired bits words from two with the resulting signals being added by binary weighted summing resistors. 
 In some applications wherein systems of the type provided by the present invention are utilized the increment of time delays between correlation coefficients is fixed and yet it would be desirable to increase the product rate to a value higher than that normally obtainable in a system producing an MXN delay pattern, even with N equal to unity. Thus there is provided in one embodiment of the present invention a system which makes use of a single stage N shift register and a kM stage M shift register. every kth stage of the M shift register has its output circuits paired with adjacent or intermittent output circuits of the N shift register. The clock pulse frequency which controls the sample rate and shift rate of the M and N registers is then increased by a factor of k times the frequency f which would be used in an MXN delay pattern correlator operating on the same fixed increment of time delays between correlation coeiiicient. The results is that the product rate is increased with A1- being held fixed in accordance with application requirements. 
 The invention also includes means for varying the timing control frequency so that increments between successive time delays (T) may be uniformly and simultaneously increased or decreased. In addition, the system includes variable delay means operative upon the sampling and delay means to permit changing the relative time delays between the two sets of samples taken from signals S1(t) and 82(1), respectively. These two capabilities permit concentration of points on the correlation function in selected regions of special interest (Le. when the function undergoes changes requiring close definition), or spreading out the points over regions of a less critical nature adequately defined with fewer points. 
 These and other objects and advantages of the invention will be better understood from the following description when read with reference to the accompanying drawings. 
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS- FIG. 1 is a block diagram of the improved system for computing correlation functions, 
 FIG. 2 is a schematic diagram of a preferred sampling gate, 
 FIGS. 3a, 3by and 3c constitute a timing diagram illustrating the operating theory of the system. 
 FIG. 4 is a schematic diagram of sampling means for low frequency signals. 
 FIG. 5 is a block diagram of a digital embodiment of the present invention. 
 FIGS. 6, 7, and 8 are improved multiplying arrangements having particular advantage in the present systems and, 
 FIG. 9 is a block diagram of another form of digital system for providing increased product rates. 
DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS The system illustrated in FIG. 1 includes a sampling means 10 having inputs 10a and 10b to which the respective signals S1(t) and S2(t) are applied. In the case of cross correlation these are different signals, whereas they are the same signal S1(t) in the case of auto-correlation. Sampling means 10 controlled by a timer 20 samples each input signal at timed intervals. The timing is such that a succession of samples of signal S2(t) are taken following a sucession of samples of signal S1(t). This alternate sampling of the two signals is repeated cyclically under control of timer 20. 
 Multiplying means 30 controlled by timer 20 has a series of inputs r, s, t, u, etc. to which the respective samples are fed (as voltages or currents). The multiplier 30 includes pulse-width, pulse-height modulation means to produce at its outputs 31 a plurality of separate signals each representative of a product of two samples, one of each input signal. These output signals correspond to different values of computation time delay. During recurrent cycles of operation these output product signals (pulses) vary in magnitude with variation in magnitudes of samples of the input signals. Conversion of these product signals into continuous voltages or currents is accomplished by individual averaging circuits 41. The output of each averaging circuit 41 is a continuous analog representation of one correlation coefficient of input signals S1(t) and S2(t) for a particular delay time -r. The collective averaging circuit outputs 42 carry a continuous analog representation of the complete correlation function. 
 The utilization means 50 is responsive to all the averaging circuit outputs 42 and can be display or recording apparatus for the correlation function, or when used for computing power spectra the utilization means 50 comprises means to continuously transform the computed correlation function information into power spectrum information. 
 Referring now to the timing control system 20, basic time intervals are established by a control pulse generator 25, which may constitute any suitable oscillator of high stability. A crystal-controlled blocking oscillator operating at one megacycle per second is suitable. The basic control pulses from generator 25 are fed into a timing control selector 26, preferably comprising a binary-base frequency divider. Timing control intervals established by selector 26 may be adjusted or varied by factor increments of two, such as from one microsecond to two microseconds, four microseconds 1,024 microseconds. The resultant control pulses of selectively reduced frequency are then fed into a master timing control circuit 32 whereby they are distributed to various parts of the correlator system. 
 Timing control circuit 32, preferably comprising binary-base digital components, includes a series of switching circuits 34 (individually numbered l through 6) for controlling the respective sampling gates 11, 12, 21, 22,- 23 and 24 through connections 35a, 35b 3 51. The switching circuits 34 preferably comprises D-C controlled bistable (scale-of-two) switching circuits or flip-flops of any suitable or known type. When triggered recurringly each produces two square waves of opposite phasing. The function of the variable delay means 38 in the timing control circuit will be explained hereinafter. 
 In the sampling means 10, signal S1(t) is continuously applied to the inputs of gates 11 and 12 and S20) similarly to the inputs of gates 21, 22, 23 and 24. As will appear, the timing of gate actuation for momentary signal sampling normally takes place in the following order: Gate 11 followed by gates 12 and 21 actuated simultaneously, thence followed successively by gates 22, 23 and 24. The total cycle is repeated recurringly by the timer 20. In this embodiment (best suited for high frequency signal applications) these gates preferably are of the sample and hold type, each retaining its sample voltage or current for subsequent use by multiplier 30. Such a gate circuit, illustrated in FIG. 2, consists mainly of a diode bridge switched alternately to on and o states by voltage waves from timer 20 applied through control transistors T1 and T2. The collectors of these transistors are connected to DC voltage sources (not shown) typically of +12 and -12 volts and their emitters are connected directly to bridge terminals 104 and 106, respectively. Their emitters are also connected through resistances R1 and R2 to the DC voltages sources of -12 and +12 volts, respectively. The base voltage of each control transistor controls its emitter voltage, and therefore the bias voltage applied to the bridge. When the timing control voltage applied to the bases of the control transistors T1 and T2 are -ll volts and +11 volts, respectively, the bridge is switched on, whereas a reversal of these voltages switches it off. A double transistor emitter-follower circuit comprising transistors T3 and T4 accepts the input signal S(t) and ensures low drive impedance to the bridge input terminal 108. 
 With the bridge switched on terminal 104 is at approximately -1l volts, while terminal 106 is at approximately +11 volts. Under these conditions the bridge diodes are conductive and a potential established by signal S(t) at bridge input terminal 108 is also sought by the output terminal 110 because of the balanced form of the bridge, together with the fact that transistors T1 and T2 constitute variable impedances viewed at their emitters. Storage condenser C connected between terminal 110 and ground thereby acquires a corresponding charge voltage due to flow of bridge current IB under control of the emitter-follower driving stage. With the bridge switched off, condenser charge is retained owing to the fact that bridge terminal 104 is now rendered positive while terminal 106 is made negative. Flow of current IB between terminals 104 and 106 is now cut off. Because of its double-end form, the gate circuit is capable of following both positive and negative signal excursions. Moreover, because the time period from on to oi condition can be made extremely short, and because the capacitor voltage does not have change in this time period, very high-frequency signals S) can be sampled accurately to represent the Value of the input signal at any instant. 
 Before describing the multiplier 30 more specically an explanation of over-all system operating theory is in order. The timing diagram of FIGS. 3a, 3b and 3c illustrates two complete cycles of operation. In each part of `the diagram both the sampling phase and the multiplying phase are shown. In FIG. 3a wave-forms 54 depict the on and folf conditions of the sampling gates.` The consecutively numbered time markers 52 represent the output pulses from timing control selector 2'6(FIG.V 1) applied Vto the timing control circuit 32. 
As previously stated, their interval may be increased or decreased at will by adjustment of the frequency division ratio of selector 26. 
 The sampling phase begins when the first gate 11 is switched on Capacitor C rapidly charges to a voltage corresponding to instantaneous input signal voltage and thereafter follows the latter for the duration of time the gate is on. In the `example this follow time is three time units 52. When the gate 11 is switched of`r`, the condenser voltage of that instant represents the desired sample of the signal, and is held duing the remainder of the cycle, extending through the multiplying phase. It is held until the gate is again switched on for resampling the signal. All the sampling gates operate in this way beginning at different times during the cycle. 
 As. shown in FIG. 3a, gate 11 takes its sample of input signals S10) at point of time l, and gate 12 takes its sample `at point 2. Gates 21, 22, 23 and 24 sample signal S20) sequentially beginning with operation of` gate 21. This may begin, as illustrated, at the same `time (point 2) as sampling by gate 12. The samples taken `by gates 11, 12, 21, 22, 23 and 24 are respectively designated a, b, c, d, e, and f. It will be observed that the time delays which exist between either of the samples a or b and different individual samples c, d, e and f can be arranged in a linear succession, as follows: 
TABLE I Time delay 1- between Sample pairs: samples (in units) b-c 0 a-c 1 bd 2 a-d 3 b-e 4 a-e` 5 b-f 6 a-f 7 This result is obtained in general terms by timing the successive samplings of signals S20) to occur at intervals equal to the product of the interval(s) between samplings of S10) multiplied by the number of samples of S10) taken during one cycle. In this case Where two samples of S110) are taken in each cycle, the time between them being `one time unit, the intervals between samples of S) are established at two time units, Moreover, the number of time delays f thus established is equal to the product of the numbers of sampling gates for the respective input signals, requiring in this case only six sampling` gates to obtain eight different time delays. 
 After taking the last sample f, the multiplying portion of the cycle begins. The `function of multiplying is to produce a number of output voltages each of which is the product of two different signal samples (from S10) and 820)) which are cross-correlated for a particular time delay. In the example, eight such output voltages are provided, corresponding to the eight time delays. Referring to FIG. 1, the multiplying means comprises a triggered saw-tooth generator 36 responsively connected through lead j' to the last stage (6) of time circuit 32, 
34 to be triggered into operation at the instant the last sample f is taken by gate 24. The saw-tooth output waveform 55 appearing in FIGS. 3a and 3b passes from a negative voltage -vs to a positive peak voltage ml-vS, this signal excursion exceeding negative-to-positive excursions of input signal voltage S10). It is applied to one input of each of two amplitude comparison trigger circuits 44a and `4417 which include input addition stages 44a' and 44b, respectively. Circuit 44a has a second input (r) to which the sample voltage from gate 11 is applied, and circuit 44b has a second input(s) to 'which the sample voltage from gate 12 is applied. Each of these trigger circuits adds its two inputs in the addition stage, compares this sum to a reference voltage which in this case is zero, and produces fannoutput trigger pulse when the inputvolt-V age sum becomes equal to that reference voltage. 'In the case illustrated in FIG. 3b sample a (gate 11 output) is negative and sample b (gate 12 output) is positive. Trigger circuit 44b thus produces an output pulse when the saw-tooth output 55 reaches a value equal to the negative of the sample b voltage (-vb), and trigger circuit 44a produces an output pulse later in time when the sawtooth wave-form reaches a value equal to the negative of the sample a voltage va). 
 Two variable-length pulse generators 45a and 45h (FIG. l) are respectively connected to be initiated by these output trigger pulses from trigger circuits 44a and 44h. These generators produce pulses 56a and 56h (FIG. 3b), respectively, of constant heights and of lengths determined by times at which they are triggered by the respective comparison circuits. Both generator circuits 45a and 45h are also connected to the saw-tooth generator 36 to be triggered olf by termination of the sawtooth. The variable-length pulses from generators 45a and 45b therefore begin at varying intervals after the instant the last sample f is taken depending upon the magnitudes of the respective samples from gates 11 and 12, and terminate at a constant interval after sample f is taken, because the saw-tooth wave is of xed duration. Thus in the variable length pulse generator outputs 56a and 56h variations are seen from one cycle to the next, successive pulses varying in length in linear proportion to successive sample values of signal S10) according to the following formula: 
Pulse length :L4-A181012) (7) where L and A1 are constants. The saw-tooth, coincidence and variable-length pulse generative circuits may be of any suitable or well-known form so as to require no detailed description herein. 
 The multiplying means 30 further includes amplitude modulators 48, corresponding in number to the number of available time delays r (see Table I), each having two input terminals, one connected to a variable-length pulse generator 45a or 4511 and the other to one of the S20) gate circuit output terminals t, u, v or w. The function of each amplitude modulator circuit 48 is to modulate the constant-magnitude pulse received from one of the variable-length pulse generators (45a or 4517) in linear proportion to the magnitude of one of the samples of signal S20) according to the following formula: 
where A2 is a constant. Thus the magnitude-time areas of the resultant output pulses are given as follows: 
Equation 9 contains a first term which corresponds to the products of the respective pairs of original signal samples, and a second term proportional to sample values of S20). When averaged over many cycles this second term reduces to zero or a constant. 
 In FIG. 3c the set of output pulses 57 (respectively designated b-c, a-c, b-d, etc., according to the signal sample products represented) from the multiplying modulators `48 is depicted during two operating cycles of the system. It will be noted that some of these output pulses are positive and some negative, that each may change from one polarity to another and that their magnitudeduration characteristics are subject to variation, all in accordance with the multiplied values of the paired signal samples. It will also be seen that because of the assigned time delays in the order of sampling signals S1(t) and S2(t) each of the pulses 57 corresponds to a product S1(tk)S2(tk-i-T) for a different time delay fr. Each such product formed for the same time delay r during each operating cycle ultimately contributes to the corresponding correlation coeicient as time tk increases progressively. (In practice the voltage between pulses need not be zero as indicated in FIG. 3b. The use of a non-zero reference voltage would add a constant (independent of T) to the correlator output.) 
 To produce the respective correlation coefficients each series `of combined variable-length, variable-magnitude, variable-polarity modulator output pulses 57 appearing at outputs 31 is next resolved into an output voltage, current or other measurement quantity such as a delay interval, a digital representation, etc. In the preferred embodiment the product information carried by pulses 57 is converted directly by averaging means 40 into a continuous, variable voltage or current in a process which suitably performs the time integration operation in the crosscorrelation formula (Equation 1). The individual outputs 31 are applied to separate averaging circuits 41, each preferably consisting of a simple RC filter having a time constant many times longer than the length of a cycle of operation of the system. Thus, a cross-correlation coeflicient (rn) is produced as each series of pulses 57 for a different time delay -rn is averaged individually during system operation. Over a period of operating cycles, with time tk increasing progressively, variations in the average of a series of pulses 57 represent variations in the individual cross-correlation coeflicient thus computed. Consequently, the correlation function (1) itself, comprising the collective correlation coefficient outputs, may change in shape and magnitude with time because of time variations in individual correlation coeicients. 
 Referring to the correlation function formula (Equation 1), the operation of the system is now seen to be complete. The averaging circuits 41 perform the integration and division, collectively producing at outputs 42 the correlation function q (-r), made up of eight uniformly distributed correlation coefficients (vn) produced in analog form continuously during system operation. These may be displayed directly on an oscilloscope or recording apparatus (not shown), or may be otherwise employed in utilization means 50 as later described. 
It was previously indicated that the timing control selector 26 permits varying the length of the basic opera-V tional time intervals 52, and thereby the intervals between signal samples, and in fact the length of the entire system operating cycle. Thus the spread between successive delays vyby which the cross-correlation function is represented may be varied at will. In addition, the timing control apparatus 20 also includes means permitting production of the correlation function of the signals in regions displaced from zero. For this purpose a variable delay means 38 of any suitable or well-known form is provided in the timer circuit interposed between switching circuits 2 and 3. Depending upon the setting of this delay means 38, the samplings of signal S2(t) may be delayed by any desired amount from the samplings of signal S2(t). This is illustrated in FIG. 3a wherein the dotted-line pulses of sampling gates 21 through 24 are shown uniformly delayed in order to establish uniformly delayed sampling times c', d', e', and f'. A delay of 8 time units, for example, results in time delays as shown *by the'following table (compare with Table I): 
Because saw-tooth generator 36 is triggered by the last switching circuit 34, any change in the setting of timeY delay means 38 produces an appropriate shift in the starting time for the saw-tooth pulse, as shown by dotted line 55. Thus the multiplying phase of the cycle is always made to follow the sampling phase. (If desired the saw-tooth generator 36 may have an adjustable saw-tooth slope control in order to permit varying the length of the multiplying phase of the cycle to compensate for changes in gain due to control frequency or time delay changes.) While this variable delay capability permits real time display (or other utilization) of the correlation function in any region thereon including or removed from zero delay, the frequency selection capability permits expanding or contracting that region in order to vary the degree of definition of the cross-correlation function with the available number of delay values r. Further advantages of the variable delay capability will be discussed hereinafter. 
 The sampling means functionally illustrated in FIG. 4 for low-frequency signals comprises two stepping switches 58 and 59, ,having ganged sets of wipers W and each having nine contacts. Contacts X1 to X9 of stepping switch 58 are connected to individual signal sample storage condenser c', and the contacts Y1 to YQ of switch 59 are individually connected to storage condenser C. Switch 58 has a condenser charging Wiper W1 and condenser voltage sampling wipers Wa and Wb ganged there- 'with in respective positions angularly offset from wiper W1 by oneand two-contact intervals. Input signal |S1(t) is applied to wiper W1 through appropriate connections to input terminal 10a. 
 Similarly, switch 59 has a condenser charging wiper W2, electrically connected to receive input signal S2(t) applied at input 10b, and four condenser voltage sampling wipers Wc, Wd, We and Wf ganged to wiper W2 in respective positions angularly offset therefrom at two, four, sixand eight-contact intervals. The wipers of both switches are rotated clock-wise in stepwise fashion by stepping mechanism 61 actfuated periodically by a timer 60. Intervals between successive samplings and increments (T) between correlation coefficients are determined by the stepping periodof the switch, which may be varied by timer 60. A typical range of variation is from 0.025 second to 10.0 seconds. 
 Storage condensers C' and C function in the same manner as output condensers C (FIG. 2) in the diode sampling gates in the first embodiment. When input signals S1(t) and S2(t) are here applied to a pair of condensers `C and C, that is, when charging wipers W1 and W2 are positioned on a pair of X-Y contacts during intervals between switching movements, the condenser voltages follow the input signal voltages until the wipers are stepped to the next set of X-Y contacts. When this occurs the two charged condensers remain charged to voltages corresponding to the respective input signal values at the instant of switching. The resulting sample voltages are maintained on the respective condensers and used intermittently thereafter until a complete rotation of the switches takes place and the samples on such a pair are replaced by application of new samples. Succeeding condensers clockwise around each stepping switch receive successively timed signal samples in this manner, 
quency higher than the frequency of the control signal applied to the sampling gate. Thus the digitized sample is available at the output of each gate and converter unit immediately following sampling of the signal. In the embodiment of FIG. the signal S1 is sampled at a rate corresponding to the frequency f of the clock pulse generator. A count-down or dividing circuit 116 operates to divide the frequency f by the number of stages in the shift register 112, N. The output of the divider 116 is applied to the sample gate of unit 111 so that the second input signal S2 is sampled at a rate equal to` f/N and the contents of register 213 are shifted at a rate of f/N. The divider 116 also controls a transfer circuit 117 which is disposed between the shift register 112 and a temporary storage unit 118 having N stages therein with each stage capable of storing a word having the same number of bits as;the number of bits in each word in the shift register 112. On each Nth clock pulse the contents of the shift register 112 are transferred in parallel to the storage unit 118.\\The output circuits 119 and 120 of the storage unit 118;are each paired with each of the output circuits 12111122, and 123 of the shift register 113. Each pair of circuits will be seen to be connected to one of the multiplying circuits 13D-135. The multiplying circuits are indicated as being of the analog output type with each having its output circuit coupled with an associated averaging circuit 136. Each averaging circuit 136 has its output coupled with the utilization means 137. As described in greater detail hereinafter, the circuits 130-135 in one embodiment serve to provide rectangular output pulses 138 `which are pulse width-pulse lheight modulated in accordance with the binary values of the two input signals applied to the multiplier circuit. 
 Prom the above and by referring to FIG. 7 it will be seen that the` signal S1 is digitized at the frequency of the clock pulse generator with the digitized information being applied to the shift register 112 and shifted in parallel therein at the frequency of the clock pulse generator. On zcach Nth clock pulse the contents of the shift register 112 are transferred to the storage unit 118. Also on each NIch clock pulse the signal S2 is sampled and the contents of the shift register 113 advanced to the right by one stage. Thus the multiplying means 130-135 provide M XN products where M and N are the number of words in the shift registers 113 and 112. The delay value related to each multiplier output is fixed, and in the embodiment of FIG. 7 the individual `delays take on the values (LAT, ZAT, 3A`r-(MN-1)A1, Where is the reciprocal of the clock frequency f. The sample product rate an any multiplier output channel is equal to the clock frequency divided by N, or f/N. Thus the sample product rate in the system of FIG. 5 is greater than the reciprocal of the maximum delay value (MN-DA1- as long as M is greater than unity. 
 From the above `it will be seen that the product of two digital Words must be formed in each channel and thus individual multiplier `circuits 130-135 are provided. While various number systems can be used in accordance with the generic concepts of the invention, the binary system has many advantages in view of the availability of standard components which can be used in the shift registers, storage unit, divider and converters. While straightforward `binary multiplication could be utilized it is to` be noted `that in the correlator system of FIG. 5 it is the average value of the sample products which is desired and, accordingly, true digital output signals are not necessary. Thus it is possible to make use of novel multiplication techniques for providing the desired output signals and thereby `conserve on the components which would normally be required if one were to obtain true binary` products and then go through a binary to analog conversion for each order in the binary product. 
 Referring now to FIG. 6 there is shown in block diagram form one type `of' multiplier 130 which is advantageously used for each multiplier unit in the system of FIG. 5. In the system of FIG. 5 it will be seen that each word in register 112 (and storage unit 118) is cornposed of six binary bits and that each word in register 113 is composed of four binary bits. Thus in FIG. 6 the sixl blnary signals, identified as A0--A5 of the output circuit .119 are applied to a parallel comparator 140. The comparator also receives six level binary information from the binary counter 141 which is repeatedly cycled from zero through (ZL-1) by pulses received from the pulse generator 142. The pulse generator 142 operates at a frequency nf which is sufficiently high to permit complete cycling of the counter 141 between each shift of register 113. When the contents of the counter 141 are equal to the binary value of the A stage of the storage unit 118 a signal is provided on stop circuit 143 to stop a variable length pulse generator 144 which is started in operation by a start signal on start circuit 141A when the first pulse is applied to the counter 141. Thus the pulse generator 141 is operated in a manner such that a pulse is applied therefrom to the pulse height modulator 145 with the length of such pulse being proportional to the binary value of the A stage of the storage unit 118. At the same time the four bits from the C stage of the shift register 113 are applied to a conventional digital-to-analog converter 146 having its output circuit 147 coupled for control of the pulse height modulator 145. The result is a rectangular pulse 138 having a width corresponding to the binary value of the A stage of the storage unit 118 and an amplitude proportional to the value of the C stage of the shift register 113. Thus it will be seen that the multiplying circuit receives binary input signals and provides an output pulse having an area proportional to the product AXC. Accordingly, the multiplier circuit 130 is referred to as an analog output multiplier. 
 While the multiplier circuit arrangement of FIG. 6 is found to work well it does require a height modulation circuit 145 whch works linearly and drift free over the compliete analog range of the digital-to-analog converter. Thus the multiplication system of FIG. 7 has been devised in order to eliminate such a height modulation circuit. Referring now to FIG. 7 it will be seen that the various components 140-144 of the system in FIG. 6 are utilized. In the system of FIG. 7 the variable length pulse from the generator 144 is applied simultaneously to each of the four binary AND gates 150-153. The second input for each of the gates 150-153 is respectively one of the binary value C0-C3 corresponding to one of the four bits of the C word in the C stage of shift register 113. Output signals from the gates 150-153 are combined by means of binary weighted resistors 154-1S7 so that an output signal proportional to the product AXC is provided to the averaging cir- 150-153 applies zero voltage (or a reference voltage V0) to the resistor associated therewith when the gate is closed When the gate is open it passes a voltage which is a function of the state of the binary bit preceding it. Thus if the input C0 to gate 150 is O the gate 150 passes zero voltage (or a reference voltage V0) whereas if the input C0 is l the gate passes a different reference voltage V1. The binary input signals Co-Ca therefore serve to open the associated gate when the input is a l -so that the reference voltage V1 is applied to the weighting resistor for a length of time determined by the length of the pulse from the variable pulse generator 144. Correlation coefiicient outputs could be derived by placing an averaging capacitor between the resistor summation terminals and ground or by feeding the summation terminal to an integrator. 
 In FIG. 8 a circuit arrangement is illustrated for providing the required digital multiplication in a simplified manner by first combining the individual -words digitally and then producing an analog output by means of a digital-to-analog conversion. As previously noted, the 
 13 so that samples stored are of increasing age progressing counterclockwise around the switches. 
 Voltage sampling wipers Wa, Wb, Wc, Wd, We and Wf are electrically connected to apply the stored samples to respective inputs r, s, t, u, v and w of multiplier 30 to be by pairing samples stored diierent lengths of time over previous cycles, greatly increases the possible number of product pairs available for presentation to each output channel per averaging circuit time constant, over that previously possible in analyzing low frequency signals. i 
Output stability is then good. However, when analyzing low-frequency signals delay increments (AT) cannot be chosen small, the sampling rate normally is proportionally reduced, and accuracy decreases. The present embodiment, wherein time delays for the product pairs are established paired thereby into a full array of products corresponding 5 The simultaneous availability of many correlation coto different time delays Ir as before. The following table efficients at the output of the correlator makes possible shows the sequence by which diierent X-Y contacts and the direct computation of power spectra therefrom. When corresponding storage condensers are paired in the ilused with some power spectrum computing devices it is lustrated case during stepping switch operation to establo advantageous if the multichannel correlator system delish a uniform array of eight delay times through nine scribed thus far in FIG. 1 has the capability of inverting consecutive cycles: the input to certain channels of the correlator itself. In 
TABLE III Time Delay 1 Sampling Wiper Pair WbW Wr e Wb-Wd Wil-Wa Wis-We Ws-We Wb-Wf Ws-Wf Cycle Number: 
1 Xs-Yn Xo-Ys Xia-Ya Xia-Yo Xa-Y4 Xo-Yt Xs-Yz Xn-Yq 2 Xi-Y9 Xia-Y1 Xi-Y1 Xia-Ys Xi-Ya Xo-Ya Xi-Ys 3...- Xz-Yi Xi-Ys Xz-Ys Xi-Y Xz-Ye Xi-Y4 Xi-Yi 4..-. Xaz Xz-Yt Xa-Ya X2Y1 Xs-Y'l Xz-Ys Xa-Ys 5. Xt-Ys Xa-Yi Xi-Yi XS-Ys XrYa Xa-Ys Xi-Ys 6. X5Y4 X4-Y2 .Xy-Y2 Xg-Yw X5Y0 X4Y1 X5Y7 7. Xs-Yf, Xs-Ya Xs-Ya Xlr-Yi Xa-Yi Xir-Ya Xa-Yg 8 1-Ye Xa-Y4 X7-Y4 Xia-Y2 .X7-Y2 X-Yo X'l-Yn 9- Xg-Y1 .X7-Ys :Xg-Ys X1-Ys Xia-Ys .X1-Yi Xa-Yi The second row in Table III represents the sampling the embodiment illustrated in FIG. 1 this procedure is Y*wiper pairs formed -by virtue of wiper connections to the implemented by a switch 82 selectively operable to intermultiplier inputs land further by virtue of appropriate pose a single inverter 80 in the signal (S2(t)) inputs of the cross-multiplication connections in the multiplier 30 (FIG. two sampling gates 21 and 22. So that both inverted and 1) itself. Each succeeding row illustrates for succeeding uninverted values of the correlation coeiiicients 1p (Tn) cycles corresponding pairing of respective X-Y contacts will be available in all output channels of the correlator, by virtue of the above-mentioned connections and the re- Switches 84 in the switching circuit leads for gates 23 and spective wiper positions on the contacts. Each column in r 24 are ganged with inverter switch 82 and Iare operable the table illustrates successive pairings of different con- 30 therewith to connect these two leads respectively to those tacts (and corresponding sampling condensers) to profor sampling gates 21 and 22. duce successive products contributing to the resulting cor- Wlth reference to the timing diagram (FIG. 3a) this relation coeflicient for a particular time delay 'r. Comparichanges the relative timing of the last two sampling gates son of Table III with FIG. 4 shows that a complete set of 40 23 and 24 in the series to sample at times e and f" as six samples applied to the multiplier during each cycle illustrated by dot-dash lines. This necessarily reduces in produces eight sample pairs (products) in each cycle, half the number of available time delay increments (AT) that each of the stored samples is used in different parts inasmuch as there are now but two samples of signal of the correlator circuit in different cycles following its S2(t) available for multiplication with samples of signal inception and nntll nePlaCen by a neW Sample nine Cyeles S10). However, these two samples are duplicated in posilater, and that each Operatlon CyclePI'OflneeS mnltlpllea' 45 tive and negative polarity (i.e. uninverted and inverted) fion 0f Samples Stored OVeI: the PfeV10nS e1gl1f CyCleS- Tlle and result in corresponding duplicate pairs of correlation resulting products are apphed tqrespeetlve averaemg Clfcoeicients, inverted and uninverted, for the same time cuits 41 to contribute to respective correlation coeicient delays In actual practice a large amount of timing outputs as before. circuitry will be aiected by this input inversion technique AS llldleated PreVlQnSlyg var la'flons 1n leng'fbs 0f u me 50 for producing inverted correlation coeicients, so that it delays me made POSSlble m t1115 embodiment by Vafylng is normally preferred to invert the signal input involving mei Period betnfeen (llePPlng Inovfnentts wthes s; the fewer number of input (sampling) circuits. 31.1. 59' Morflme e ays T may e es a 1S e y pr. In the embodiment of the invention illustrated in FIG. vision of additional contacts, storage condensers and wip- 5 th l e input signa s S1 and S2 are respectively applied to ers, or their equivalents, a small number having been the sam 1in ate and anale t, di it l o t .t chosen herein for simplicity of illustration only- The con- 110 andpu lhich riodic 0S i all c Ivl: 6.? nils cept disclosed is of course not limited to use of stepping in ut Si Hals Th Se 1t. ady .t al p an lgldlze t e switches provided with storage condensers. Other funca pli d 's .et d u mg 1.1%; aha ues. (wor S2) ar tionally similar devices may be used, such as stepping llll; esh as la ellznqncycdfne Sdlt rlgters 11 an motors, relays, electronic switches, memory circuits or l rgls er ,1 8 m 1cate s avm? N Stages combinations of these. or the ca pacity'for receiving and shifting therein N words, while shift register 113 is indicated as being an M stage When measuring correlation functions by sampling techshift re gister. In the specific embodiment of FIG. 7 the niques, the stability (accuracy) of the measurement is re- Shift re gister 112 is shown as having two stages, or word lated to the number of samples or sample pairs received b4 each out ut Channel durin the integrating time of the 65 storage sections, each word being of six binary bits. The y p g shift register 113 is shown as having three stages of four output averaging filters. When high-frequency signals are bits each The number of bits er Word in th t analyzed, increments (Af) between time delays can be ters have'be h b p. d f e Wotieglls' chosen small and the sampling rate in each channel is f enfSteOWlIlt aS helng six an our, respec ive y, sufficiently high for, say, several hundred samples to ocoIPuposes o ac mg t e Present lm entloncur in a time equal to the averaging circuit time constant. c ook Pulse generator 114 @Peratmg a frequency has its signal output circuit 115, connected directly with the first gate analog-to-digital converter unit 110. The unit and 111 preferably each include a sampling gate of the type shown in FIG. 2 followed by a conventional analog-to-digital converter which is operated at a frecorrelation systems of the present invention are directed toward obtaining an average value of the sampled products which corresponds to an average of the signal products. Thus it is not necessary to obtain instantaneous product values. The multiplication system of FIG. 8 is of particular value in such systems since it serves to dene a product term with low resolution and yet a good estimate of mean value is obtained. In the system shown in FIG. 5 the words in the shift register 113 are defined in terms of four binary bits and words in the shift register 112 and in the storage unit 118 are defined by six binary bits. Thus if one considers the A and C word in the` registers 112 and 113 to be: 
 A3(23)+A4(24) +A5(25) C=C(2)+C1(21)+C2(22)+C3(23) where A0, A1 A5 and C0 C3 take on values of O or 1, the product A XC can be broken into a number of components and a Weight assigned to each as follows: 
where each product, such as A5C2, is unity if both A5 and C2 are "1 and zero if not. 
 In the example given the product term may be sutliciently` defined if only the -iirst four components in the above chart are accounted for. These product terms are readily obtained through the use of simple diode AND gates and weighting resistors. Thus it will be seen in FIG. 8 thata number of diode AND gates 160 are arranged for receipt of the Various binary bits from the two words to be multiplied with the outputs of each individual AND gate being applied through the indicated resistor networks to a common summing junction 161 for application to an averaging circuit 136. It will be seen that the` values corresponding to 28 have the greatest weight by `being applied to the summing junction 161 through a resistor 162 having a resistance R, the 2z components are` summed by a pair of resistors 163 each having a value of 2R, the 26 values are summed through the resistors 164each having a resistance of 4R, and the 25 values are summed through the resistors 165 each having a value of SR. In a given application it may be necessary to extend the general concept illustrated in FIG. 10 by additional binary orders, but in general it will -be seen fromthe above chart of relative weights to be accorded to the various binary values that even a four binary stage combining network covering the values from 2B through 25 leads to sufficient accuracy for many applications. 
 When the teachings of the present invention are implemented by a system such as that shown in FIG. 5 making use of shift registers, the sample product rate is given by the reciprocal of the quantity (nAr) Where N is the number of Words in the shift register 112 (and also the number of words in the storage unit 118). In many applications Ar is fixed by the requirements of the system and accordingly it will be seen that the product rate is maximized when N equals unity. In that case the system then becomes one having a l XM delay pattern capability rather than a Cartesian N XM delay pattern. In such applications where A1- must remain fixed it is often desirable to obtain a product rate even greater than that obtained by having N equal to unity in a system such as that of FIG. 5. The system shown in FIG. 9 makes possible the achievement of such higher product rates. 
In the system of FIG. 9 the input signals S1 and S2 are respectively applied to the sampling gate and analog-todigital converter units 210 and 211 which are similar to the units and 111 in FIG. 5. However in the system of FIG. 9 these units serve to sample both of the input signals at the rate of the occurrence of pulses from the clock pulse generator 214. The digitized signals from the unit 210 are applied to a single word storage unit 212 (which can also be referred to as a single stage shift register) and the digitized signals from the converter 211 are applied to the stage shift register 213. To provide a comparison to the system of FIG. 5 the clock pulse generator 214 is shown as operating at a frequency of K times the frequency f of FIG. 5 and only each Kth stage of the register 213 has an output circuit. In the specific example it is assumed that the frequency of the clock pulse generator is 3 times that of the frequency of the clock pulse generator in the system of FIG. 5 and accordingly every third stage of the shift register 213 has its signal output circuit paired with the output circuit 215 of the single stage register 212. 
 It will be seen that in the system of FIG. 9 the input signals are sampled at the rate Kf of clock pulse generator 214, and that the product rate is also Kf. Since only every Kth stage of shift register 213 provides output signals AT remains at the desired constant value. It will therefore be seen that the system of FIG. 9 provides a convenient method of obtaining an increased product rate even though A1- must remain fixed for a given application. Even though the number of stages in the register 213 must be increased by a factor of K it should be noted that since only every Kth stage must be capable of providing output signals the intermediate stages can be low cost magnetic shift register stages. 
 While the systems have been illustrated as using storage capacitors with wiper switches, or as using shift registers, it should be noted that addressable digital memories such as magnetic cores or magnetic drums could be used. For example a core memory could readily be used with the digital words corresponding to signal samples being entered into the core memory by sequentially in creasing the write address registers. Several read addresses would be selected in parallel with their addresses sequencing around at an appropriate iixed number of increments behind the write addresses. The words read out of the memory would enter registers such as flip-hops connected to the multiplying means. 
 While the invention has been disclosed by reference to presently preferred embodiments, it should be understood that those modiiications which become obvious to a person skilled in the art, as a result of the teachings hereof are to be encompassed -by the following claims. 
What is claimed is: 
 1. A system for computing a correlation function of electrical signals appearing at first and second circuit conductors comprising: signal input means connected to said conductors and providing first and second pluralities of time-related time successions of signal values at said first and second conductors, multiplication circuit means connected to said input means and recurringly cross multiplying each of the plurality of time-related time successions of signal values at the 'first conductor by each of the plurality of time-related time successions of signal values at the second conductor, the latter time successions of values bearing a predetermined time relationship to the former, to produce recurring sets of circuit responses representing recurringly the Cartesian product of the cross-multiplied signal values, and signal averaging means coupled with said multiplication means for separately time averaging the respective recurring circuit responses substantially continuously to represent respective correlation coefficients collectively defining said correlation function. 
 2. Correlation computer apparatus comprising rst and second signal inputs, first and second groups of signal sampling devices to which the inputs are respectively applied, timing means operable through recurring cycles and connected to the sampling devices to operate those in the iirst group at successively delayed times and those in the second group at successively delayed times in timed relation with the sampling times of the first group, each such device having a storage element therein which tracks the successive sample values of signal and which, between sampling times, retains the signal sample therein, means forming a plurality of output channels each with two inputs operatively associated respectively with sampling device storage elements of the first and second groups, whereby said output channels receive respectively different combinations of two signal samples including one from each sampling device group, means in each output channel for multiplying the recurringly received signal samples, and separate means coupled with each output channel for averaging recurring products therein to derive respective correlation coeiicient outputs. 
 3.VY The computer apparatus defined in claim 2, wherein the output channel inputs operatively associated with the sampling device storage elements in the first group comprise means operated cyclically by the timing means to generate in each such latter input recurring pulses each having an amplitude-duration pulse envelope product proportional to the currently stored signal sample in the associated sampling device, and wherein the inputs of all output channels comprise pulse modulators receiving such pulses and operable to vary the amplitude-duration products thereof in proportion to the stored signal samples in signal sampling devices of the second group associated with such inputs, thereby to multiply together the recurringly received signal samples operatively associated with each output channel, and means in each output channel responsive to the modulated pulses to produce an output response proportional to the time average of varying amplitude-duration recurrent products.. 
 4. The computer apparatus defined in claim 3, wherein the first-mentioned pulse generator comprises in each channel a triggerable variable-length pulse generator having a starting trigger input and a stopping trigger input, means for applying the stopping trigger simultaneously to corresponding inputs of such pulse generators in response to operation of the timing means, a sawtooth wave generator cyclically triggered by said timing means, amplitude comparison circuits having outputs connected to the respective starting trigger inputs and each having a irst input connected to the sawtooth wave generator and a second input connected to the respectively associated sampling device storage element, said comparison circuits further including means for adding said first and second inputs, means for comparing the sum of said inputs to a reference circuit value, and means operable to produce an output trigger pulse in response to amplitude coincidence between the instantaneous input sum and said reference value. 
 -S. A system for computing the correlation function of a pair of input signals, comprising a first input means to which one signal is applied, a second input means to which the other signal is applied, each of said input means having a plurality of outputs and being operable to produce in said outputs representations of the applied input signal bearing a predetermined set of successively delayed relationships to one another, the signal representations from one input means also bearing predetermined time relationships with the signal representations from the other input means; multiplying circuit means having a plurality of inputs; circuit means operatively associated with said input means and with said multiplying circuit means and operable to apply said signal representations to said multiplying circuit means in pairs of one signal representation from each of said input means with the signal representations in each pair bearing to each other a time-delay relationship differing from time-delay relationships of signal representatons comprising all other pairs, said multiplying means having a plurality of output channels each responsive to a different one of said pairs of signal representations and being operable to produce in said output channels respective output responses each representative of the product of the amplitudes of the pair of applied signal representations whereby each signal representation from the rst input means is multiplied by each signal representation from the second input means, and separate means operatively associated with each multiplying means output channel for continuously averaging the output responses therein. 
 6. The system defined in claim 5 wherein each delay means comprises a set of sampling devices and cyclically operable timing control means actuating said devices at successively delayed times to derive successive sample values of the applied input signal as said output signal representations. 
 7. The system defined in claim `6 wherein said timing control means is operable to actuate the sampling devices of each set in successive Order during each cycle and is connected to said multiplying means to operate the same cyclically for multiplying said pairs of signal sample representations derived during each such cycle. 
 8. The system dened in claim 7, wherein the timing control means is operable to actuate the sampling devices for the first signal at equal intervals and those sampling the second signal at intervals of a length equal to the product of the interval between samplings of the rst signal multiplied by the number of samples taken of said first signal in each cycle, thereby to establish a uniform array of equal time-delay differentials between pairs of signal sample representations. 
 9. The system defined in claim 6 wherein at least one such set of sampling devices comprises a set of storage elements and storing means sequentially cooperable therewith to derive a single signal sample during each cycle in successive storage elements, wherein said multiplying means includes a plurality of separate multiplier units each adapted to receive a different pair of signals from said delay means, and sample selection means cyclically operable in synchronous relationship with said storing means to apply to said multiplying means in each cycle a plurality of stored samples which bear the same storage time relationship to each other as the plurality of samples applied in each preceding cycle and wherein each said stored sample is applied to a different multiplier unit. 
 10. The system defined in claim 9 wherein said storing means includes a series of terminals electrically connected respectively to the individual storage elements, first switching means connected to receive said applied input signal and operable to engage said terminals sequentially, second and third switching means comprising said sample selection means and being also operable to engage said terminals sequentially, said second and third switching means being respectively connected to first and second outputs to which said multiplying means is responsive, and actuating means connected to said iirst switching means to engage and disengage the same with successive terminals in step-by-step manner whereby to derive successive signal samples in the respective storage elements, said actuating means being similarly connected to the second and third switching means to engage and disengage the second and third switching means with the respective terminals a predetermined whole number of steps after engagement therewith of the first switching means, and to engage and disengage the third switching means with the respective terminals a predetermined whole number of steps after the second switching means, thereby to apply the stored samples successively to each of said iirst and second outputs, said second delays means comprising a second set of storage elements and second storing means having a series of terminals electrically conquentially, and fifth and sixth switching means also operable to engage said terminals sequentially and respectively connected to third and fourth outputs to which said multiplying means is responsive, said actuating means being similarly operatively connected to the fifth and sixth switching means to engage and disengage the fifth with the respective terminals a predetermined whole number of steps after the fourth, and to engage and disengage the sixth with the respective terminals a predetermined whole number of steps behind the fifth, thereby to apply successively to each of said third and fourth outputs the samples stored in the second set of storage elements, the interval between said fifth and sixth switch-elements being an integral multiple of the interval between the second and third switching elements. Y Y Y 11. In correlation computer apparatus Vhaving first and second signal inputs, a first series of storage condensers, a first switch means including a series of terminals connected respectively to the individual condensers and including first, second and third switching elements oper- -able to engage said terminals sequentially, said first switching element being connected to the first signal input, first and second outputs to which the second and third switching elements are respectively connected, actuating means connected to said first switching element to operate `the same in step-by-step manner through recurring cycles, thereby to store in the respective condensers successive samples of voltage in the rst signal input during each cycle, said actuating means being similarly operatively connected to said second and third switching elements, with the second switching element engaging the respective terminals a predetermined whole number of steps after the first switching element and with the third switching element engaging such terminals a predetermined whole number of steps after the second element, thereby to apply the stored samples successively to` each of said first and second outputs, a second series of` storage condensers, a second switch means including a series of terminals connected respectively to the individual condensers `in the second series and including fourth, fifth` and sixth switching elements operable to engage said last-mentioned terminals sequentially, said fourth switching element being connected to said second signal input, third and fourth outputs to which the fifth and sixth switching `elements are respectively connected, said actuating means being similarly operatively connected to said fourth, fifth and sixth switching elements, with the fifth switching element engaging the respective terminals a predetermined whole number of steps after the fourth and with the sixth engaging such terminals a predetermined `whole, number of steps behind the fifth thereby to apply successively to each of said third and fourth outputs `the second input voltage samples stored in the second-series condensers by the fourth switching element, the interval between said fifth and sixth switching elementsbeing an integral multiple of the interval between the second and third switching elements. 
 12. In correlation computer apparatus having first and second signal inputs, means for establishing time-delay differentials between signal values for multiplication, comprising in combination: a first series of storage condensers, a first switch means including a series of terminals connected respectively to the individu-al condensers and in cluding a plurality of switching elements 1, 2, 3 p, operable to engage said terminals sequentially, the first switching element being connected to the first signal input, a first plurality of outputs to which switching elements 2, 3 p are respectively connected, actuating means connected to switching element 1 to operate the same in` step-by-step manner through recurring cycles, thereby to store in the respective condensers successive samples of voltage in the first signal input during each cycle, said actuating means being similarly operatively connected to said switching elements 2, 3 p, with switching element 2 `engaging the respective terminals a predetermined whole number of steps after switching element 1 and with each succeeding switching element engaging such terminals a predetermined whole number of steps after its predecessor, thereby to apply the stored samples successively to each of said first plurality of outputs, a second series of storage condensers, a second switch means including a series of terminals connected respectively to the individual condensers in the second series and including switching elements 1', 2', 3 p', operable to engage said last-mentioned terminals sequentially, switching element 1' being connected to said second signal input, a second plurality of outputs to which switching elements 2', 3 p' are respectively connected, said actuating means being similarly operatively connected to switching elements 1', 2', 3 p', with switching element 2' engaging the respective terminals a predetermined whole number of steps after switching element 1' and with each succeeding switching element engaging such terminals a predetermined whole number of steps after its predecessor, thereby to apply successively to each of said outputs in the second plurality the second input voltage samples stored in the second-series condensers by switching element 1', the interval between successive switching elements 2', 3' p' being equal to the product of p multiplied by the interval between successive switching elements 2, 3 
 13. A system for computing a correlation function of a pair of input signals, comprising separate means for deriving a set of samples of each input signal, with the individual samples of one set occurring in predetermined time-spaced relationship with individual samples of the other set, multiplying means having a plurality of outputs and operatively associated with said separate means and operable to multiply each individual sample in one set by each individual sa-mple in the other set, thereby to produce a plurality of output product circuit responses in the respective outputs, means in such system for cyclically repeating such sampling and multiplying, whereby to produce such output product responses recurringly, and separate means operatively associated with the respective multiplying means outputs for continuously averaging the responses therein whereby to derive separate correlation coefficient outputs which collectively represent the correlation function of said input signals. 
 14. The system defined in claim 13, wherein said samplederiving means comprises first and second sets of sampling devices to which the input signals are respectively applied, and wherein said means for cyclically repeating sampling and multiplying comprises timing control means operable cyclically to actuate said devices at successively delayed times during each cycle whereby to derive successive samples of the applied input signals and being further operable to actuate said multiplying means cyclically for multiplying the samples derived during each such cycle. 
 15. The system defined in claim 14, wherein the sampling devices comprise gate circuits each having a sample storage element therein operable to retain a signal sample value between successive operations thereof, and wherein said multiplying means outputs are responsive to respectively different combinations of two of such currently retained signal samplesincluding one of each input signal. 
 16. The system defined in claim 15 wherein said multiplying means comprises a plurality of input circuits each responsive to one of the gate circuits in the first set to generate recurring pulses each having an amplitude-duration pulse envelope product proportional to the sample currently stored in such circuit, and a plurality of output circuits responsive to respectively different combinations of one of said input circuits and one of the gate circuits in the second set, each output circuit being operable to modulate the amplitude-duration product pulse in the associated input circuit in proportion to the sample currently stored in the associated gate circuit. 
 17. The system defined in claim 13 wherein at least one of said separate signal sample deriving means comprises a plurality of storage elements and storing means cooperable cyclically therewith to store the successively derived signal samples in said elements, and sample selection means cyclically operable in synchronous relationship with said storing means to apply to said multiplying means in each cycle a plurality of stored samples which bear the same time relationship to each other as the plurality of samples applied in each preceding cycle. 
 18. A system for computing a correlation function of a pair of input signals, comprising a separate means for successively sampling each input signal, with the individual samples of one input signal derived in time-spaced relationship with individual samples of the other input signal, circuit means forming pairs of such samples with each pair having one sample from each input signal and members of the respective pairs having different time relationships whereby to correspond to different predetermined amounts of time delay, said circuits means including means operable to multiply together substantially simultaneously the members of such sample pairs, thereby to produce respective output product responses corresponding to said predetermined amounts of time delay, means in such system for cyclically repeating such sampling, pairing and multiplying to produce respective series of such output product responses, and means operative through recurring cycles to average each such series individually. 
 19. A system for computing the correlation function of first and second input signals, comprising in combination: first signal input means to Which the first input signal is applied having a plurality N of outputs and operable to produce in said outputs N simultaneous representations of the applied signal having equal time-delay differentials AT therebetween; second signal input means to which the second signal is applied having a plurality M of outputs and being operable to produce in its said outputs M simultaneous representations of the applied input signal having equal time-delay differentals NAT therebetween; multiplying means having a `first plurality N of input circuits operatively associated with said first signal input means and operable to receive said first signal representations and a second plurality M of input circuits operatively associated with said second input means and operable to receive said second signal representations, said multiplying means having a plurality MN of output channels each providing an output signal representative of the product of a different pair of said input signal representations with each such pair including one input signal representation from each of said signal input means. 
 20. The system defined in claim 19 wherein said -first signal input means comprises means for deriving samples of said first input signal, including first signal storage means having N storage locations for said samples; said second input means comprises means for deriving samples of said second input signal, including second signal storage means having M storage locations for said samples; and wherein said system further includes cyclically operable timing control means for actuating each of said sample deriving means at successively delayed times to store successive sample values of the applied input signal as said input signal representations. 
 21. The system defined in claim 20` wherein said timing control means includes means for actuating the first sample deriving means to store successive first signal samples separated by intervals AT and means for actuating the second sample deriving means to store second signal samples separated by time intervals NAT. 
 22. The system defined in claim 20` wherein said first signal storage means comprises a first shift register having N stages. 
 23. The system defined in claim 22 wherein said second storage means comprises a second shift register having M stages. 
 24. The system defined in claim 19 wherein: said first signal input means includes a first signal sampling gate, an analog to digital converter unit and an N stage shift register; said second signal input means includes a second signal sampling gate, a second analog to digital converter, and an M stage shift register; said system further including cyclically operable timing control means coupled with said first and second signal input means causing said first input signal to be sampled periodically at a frequency f and said second input signal to be sampled at a frequency of f/N, said first converter unit 1being coupled with said N stage shift register and operable to digitize samples of said first signal and apply the same sequentially to said N stage shift register, said second converter unit being coupled with said M stage shift register and operable to digitize samples of said second signal and apply the same sequentially to said M stage shift register. 
 2S. The system defined in claim 24 including means applying N samples of said first signal derived from said N stage register and M samples of said second signal derived from said M stage register simultaneously to said multiplying means. 
 26. The system defined in claim 25 and including an N stage signal storage unit coupled with said N stage register and having N output circuits coupled with said multiplying means, and means including said timing control means for periodically transferring the contents of said N stage shift register into said N stage storage unit. 
 27. The system defined in claim 26y wherein the contents of said N stage shift register are transferred to said storage unit at a frequency of f/N. 
 28. The system defined in claim 24 wherein said multiplying means includes MXN analog output-digital input multiplication units. 
 29. The system defined in claim 21 wherein said input means include respective pluralities of N and M readout means coupled respectively with said N and M outputs and cooperable in synchronous relationship with the respective sample deriving means to apply to said multiplying means in each time interval N/f respective pluralities of N and M stored samples of said signals bearing the same storage-time relationship to each other as the plurality of samples applied in each preceding cycle. 
 30. A signal sampling and multiplying system for a correlation computing apparatus comprising in combination: first signal sampling means including a first signal sampling gate adapted to sample a first signal periodically at time intervals AT apart; an N stage signal storage unit; first circuit means coupled with said first sampling means and with said storage unit adapted to apply N output signals representing N samples from said sampling means to said storage unit, said storage unit having N output circuits for providing simultaneously N output signals representing N signal samples; second signal sampling means including a second signal sampling gate adapted to sample a second signal periodically at time intervals NAT apart; a multistage signal storage unit having M stages; second circuit means coupled with said second sampling means and with said M stage storage unit adapted to :fill said M stage storage unit with M signals representing M signal samples which are NAT time intervals apart; and a plurality of multiplication circuit means coupled with said M stage storage unit and with said N stage storage unit for simultaneously multiplying the signal in each stage of said N stage unit times a plurality of the stages in said M stage unit. 
 31. The system defined in claim 30l wherein said first circuit means includes an N stage shift register for receiving samples from said first sampling means sequentially and shifting the same therein, signal transfer means coupling each stage of said shift register with a stage of said N stage storage unit, and means operating said signal transfer means at time intervals NAT apart. 
 32. The system defined in claim 31 wherein said M stage storage unit is an M stage shift register. 
 33. The system defined in claim 30 wherein said first signal sampling means includes an analog to digital converter. 
 34. The system defined in claim 31 wherein each of said signal sampling means includes an analog to digital converter, wherein the signals stored in said storage units are `digital signals representing the input signal samples, and wherein said multiplication circuit means include MN digital input-analog output multiplication units. 
 35. The system defined in claim 30 wherein said multiplication circuit means includes a number MN of simultaneously operable multiplication units each adapted to multiply a different pair of input signals with each said pair including one signal from one stage of said M stage storage unit and one signal from said N stage storage unit, to thereby provide MN products simultaneously. 
36. The system defined in claim 31 wherein N equals VVone, and wherein `only every Kth-stage of said M stage unit is coupled with said multiplication circuit means and wherein the output of said N stage unit is paired with each said Kth stage Where K is a number greater than one. 
 37;` The system defined in claim 30 wherein each of said signal sampling means includes an analog to digital converter, N equals one, said N stage storage unit comprises a single stage 4multibit register, said M stage storage unit comprises a multistage multibit shift register, and each Kth stage of said M stage unit has a signal output circuit paired with the output circuit of said N stage unit as an input for said multiplication means, where K is a number greater than one. 
 38.\The system defined in claim 37 wherein each stage of said M stage unit other than each said Kth stage is a magnetic signal storage stage. 
 39. The system `defined in claim 5 wherein the said first input means includes N outputs and means for establishing equal time-delay differentials Ar between the signal representations in said N outputs, the second input means includes M outputs and means for establishing equal timedelay differentials NA-r between the signal representations in said M outputs, and said multiplying circuit means includes a plurality of MN of said output channels providing output signals representative of respective products of signal representations corresponding to time-delay differentials separated by increments A-r. 
 `40. A system for computing a correlation function of electrical signals appearing at first and second circuit conductors comprising: sampling means coupled with said conductors for selectively sampling the respective signals at the first and second conductors at time-related successive intervals, signal storage means coupled t0 said sampling means for storing such samples individually to represent said signal values, multiplication circuit means coupled with said storage means for cross multiplying each of the plurality of time-related time successions of signal values in the first storage means by each of the plurality of time-related time successions of signal values in the second storage means, the latter time successions of values bearing a predetermined time relationship to the former, to produce a set of circuit responses representing the Cartesian product of the cross-multiplied signal values, and signal averaging circuit means coupled with said multiplication circuit means for electrically time averaging the respective responses substantially continuously to represent respective correlation coefficients defining said correlation function. 
Relerences Cited UNITED STATES PATENTS 2,908,889 10/ 1959 Piety. 3,217,289 11/ 1963 Elliott et al. 
RODNEY D. BENNETT, JR., Primary Examiner C. E. WANDS, Assistant Examiner