Computing bomb sight 
US-2439381-A
Bell Telephone Labor Inc
1948-04-13
https://patents.google.com/patent/US2439381A/en
pix-55 E3, 18. s. DARLJNGTQN ETAL 3 COMPUTING BOMBSIGHT Filed July 17, 1943 s Sheets-Sheet 1 5. DARLINGT'ON WNES LDRIDGE' ATmQNEY, 
s. DARLlNGTON HAL 9 COMPUTING BOMBSIGHT Filed July 17, 1943 6 Sheets-Shem; 2 
FIG. 6 
 a 1 SH/FER 1L \b S. DARLING TON INVENTORS c. H. TOWNES a. woman/06E ATTORNEY FIG. /0 
Filed July 17, 1943 wvsmons: c. V 
0. E. waowm Y. 
5. DARLINGTON H WWNE? AT ORNEY Apwfifl 13, 1194. s. DARLINGTON ETAL COMPUTING BOMBSIGHT Filed July 17, 1943 6 Sheets-Sheet 5 "S COSA 4? C05 6 nun  S. DARL/NGTON INVENmRS C. H. TOW/V55 D. E. WOOLDR/DGE fimm +5 S/N A 2/5 link WV ATTORNEY Patented Apr. 13, 1948 COMPUTING BOD/1B SIGHT Sidney Darlington, New York, N. Y., and Charles H. Townes, Mendham, and Dean E. Wooldridge, Chatham, N. J., assignors to Bell Telephone Laboratories, Incorporated, New York, N. Y., a corporation of New York Application July 17, 1943, Serial No. 495,130 
 7 Claims. 1 
 This invention relates to a computer associated with an aerial bombsight, and particularly to a computer in which the data are represented in the form of electrical quantities. 
 The object of the invention is means for indicating the correct course to be flown by an aerial vehicle, and for indicating the correct point at which to release a bomb, so that the bomb will fall on a target. 
 A feature of the invention is means for combining varying observed velocity data to give de rived velocity components which should be constant. 
 Another feature of the invention is means for smoothing the electrical quantities representing the constant derived velocity components. The degree of smoothing increases during the course of a bombing run so as to produce an averaging eiiect on the data which weights late observations more heavily than early ones, in a controlled fashion. 
 Another feature of the invention is the derivation from the smoothed electrical quantities representing-the constant velocity components of other electrical quantities that make possible a comparison of the ratio between the deflection component of the horizontal ground speed and the range component of the horizontal ground speed and the ratio between the deflection component of the displacement of the plane from its predicted position at the instant of impact and the range component of the same displacement; and the comparison of these electrical quantities, whereby equality of these quantities indicates the correct track to be flown by the aerial vehicle. The ground speed is really the speed of the airplane with respect to the target, which may or may not be stationary. 
 A further feature of the invention is the derivation from the smoothed electrical quantities representing the constant velocity components of electrical quantities proportional to the range component of the displacement of the aerial vehicle from its predicted position at the instant of impact of the bomb, and of electrical quantities proportional to the range component of the displacement of the aerial vehicle during the predicted time of fall of the bomb, and the com parison of these electrical quantities, whereby equality of these quantitiesindicates the correct time to release the bomb. 
 The present computer is associated with a bombsight capable of continuously measuring an azimuth angle and a distance. The azimuth angle is measured from some assumed vertical plane at the aerial vehicle to the vertical plane through the line of sight. The reference plane may conveniently be taken to be the vertical plane that includes the head to tail axis of the aerial vehicle, and the azimuth angle may be measured clockwise. The distance is the slant distance from the vehicle or airplane to the target. The bombslght may be an optical instrument including a theodolite for measuring the azimuth angle and an optical range finder for measuring the distance, a radio locating equipment capable of measuring the azimuth angle and slant distance or a combination of optical and radio devices. The range finder may also be used to measure height or elevation of the airplane above the surface of the earth. The measurement of height, and the continuous measurements of azimuth angle and slant distance are supplied as voltages to the computer, together with information in the form of voltages representing the vector velocity of the airplane with respect to the air and the ballistic characteristics of the bomb used, and the computer continuously indicates the correct course to be flown, and the correct instant to drop the bomb so as to strike the target. 
 The operation of the computer will be better understood from the drawings, in which: 
 Fig. 1 shows the geometrical relationships, projected on a horizontal plane through the vehicle; 
 Fig. 2 shows the geometrical relationships projected on a vertical plane through the vehicle and the target; 
 Fig. 3 diagrammatically shows the vector and component velocities involved in Fig. 1; 
 Fig. 4 shows the geometrical relationships of Fig. 1 at the instant of release of the bomb; 
 Fig. 5 shows the velocity relationships of Fig. 3 at the instant of release of the bomb; 
 Fig. 6 diagrammatically shows a radio locator associated with the computer; 
 Fig. '7 schematically shows a device for producing a rotation proportional to horizontal range; 
 Fig. 8 shows a summing amplifier forming part of the device shown in Fig. 7 
 Fig. 9 schematically shows a device for producing a rotation proportional to the difierence between angles 0 and x; 
 Figs. 10, 11 and 12 schematically show the computing elements forming part of the invention; 
 Fig. 13 schematically shows a summing amplifier forming part of Figs. 10, 11 and 12; 
 Figs. 14 and 14A schematically show the circuit for the steering meter; and 
 Fig. 15 schematically shows the circuit for releasing the bomb. 
 In Fig. 1, P represents an aerial vehicle, such as an airplane, headed along the course PA. Assume, as usual in bombing technique that the airplane is flying at constant speed and at constant height. If a wind be blowing with respect to the target, the airplane will actually travel along a track such as PB. The target is located at O, and the function of the present invention is to indicate the corrfict track PB, and the correct release point RP so that the bomb will fall on the target. 
 In Fig. 2, the constant height H of the airplane is PD, the constantly measured slant distance p is PO. From these two measurements, the computer can continuously compute the distance D0, which is the horizontal'range R, represented by P in Fig. 1. 
 If PA is a correct bombing course, and the airplane steadily heads along the course PA at constant speed and height, releases a bomb at RP, and continues at the same speed along the track PB, it will reach the point B at the time of impact. 
-The distance OB, along the fore and aft axis of the airplane is known as the trail T, and is tabulated in the ballistic tables for the type of bomb used. 
 The angle APO between the course of the airplane and the vertical plane through the target is designated 0. If the air structure is standard, the bomb will fall directly behind the airplane, 
in the vertical plane including the head-to-tail axis of the airplane, that is, the trail is in the line of the course, so that angle BOC=angle APC=0. Thus, DC, the range component of the trail equals T cos 0 and BC, the deflection component of the trail equals T sin 49. The distance PC equals R+T cos 9. 
 The airplane is equipped with a gyroscopic device, such as the device shown in United States Patent 1,959,803, May 22, 1934, B. A. Wittkuhns. which maintains an axis PX having a direction fixed in space and is equipped with a servomotor which indicates the angle 7. between this axis and some fixed axis of the airplane which may conveniently be the head to tail axis of the airplane lying in the course of the airplane. 
 The azimuth angle 0 is continuously measured by the observing equipment, thus, the angle 5,- between the axis fixed in direction and the vertical plane containing the airplane and the target, which is equal to 0-) may be determined. 
 The relative velocity between the airplane and the target, which may be termed the ground speed is indicated by the vector V, Fig. 3. This vector V may be resolved into a component -R in the vertical plane containing the airplane and the target. This component is the rate of change in the horizontal range R, indicated by the dot, and as the range is decreasing is inherently a negative quantity. The vector V is also resolved into the component GF, equal to R6, where 6 is the rate of change in 6. (This resolution of vec-' tors is shown in section 7, page 11, of The Dynamics of Particles, A. G. Webster, 1912, published by G. E. Stechert and Company, New York.) 
In Figs. 1 and 3, the triangles BPC and FPG I are similar, thus, 
3? T sin a R R+T cos 0 This equation may be, multiplied by and rearranged to give R5+%(R8 cos 0+R sin 0) :0 (1) If a voltage varying in proportion to the lefthand side of Equation 1 be produced and applied to a meter, the needle of the meter will be in the center of the scale when the airplane is on the correct traclr; when the airplane is to the right of the correct track the needle will be deflected to the left ,of the center of the scale; when the airplane is to the left of the correct track the needle will be deflected to the right of the center of the scale. The needle of the meter thus indicates in which direction the airplane should be turned to come back to the correct track. 
 Fig. 4 shows the relationship of Fig. 1 at the instant the airplane passes through the release point RP. The, condition defining a correct release point is that if the plane continues after releasing the bomb along the same track at the same velocity for a time equal to the time of fall t of the bomb it will just reach a point at a horizontal distance from the target, measured along the line of the course equal to the trail '1. 
 In Fig. 4, as in Fig. 1, angle BCO is a right angle. Then, as .before, the distance RPC' equals R+T 00s 0 The distance RPB is the distance the airplane travels at a velocity V during the time of fall t of the bomb and evidently equals Vt. In Fig. 5 the velocity of the plane V is represented by the vector RPB, and the range component of this velocity R is represented by the vector RPC. In Figs. 4 and 5 the triangles RPBC are similar. Thus and  The expression R+T cos 0 is termed the range component of the displacement of the vehicle from its predicted position at the instant of impact of the bomb, and the expression Rt is the range component of the displacement of the vehicle during the predicted time of fall of the bomb. During the bombing run R+T cos 0 is larger than Rt, until, at the correct release point RP, these quantities become equal. Thus, if a voltage varying in proportion to the left-hand side of Equati-on 2 be produced, and supplied to a meter this voltage will fall to zero at the correct time to release the bomb, 
 The angle 6 is measured with respect to an axis having a direction fixed in space, thus Equation 1 is valid for any course curved or straight. The voltage proportional to Equation 2 decreases as the airplane approaches the release point, and falls to zero at the release point. Thus, during the bombing run, the pilot may fly on any course at the measured height, and the steering meter will indicate the direction to be steered to come to the correct track, while the release meter indicates the time before reaching the correct release point. A convenient time before reaching the release point, the pilot steers to the correct track and follows this track when passing through the release point. After the bomb is released, the pilot may fly on any desired course. 
 In following a moving target, an observer will tend to overrun and underrun the target with his tracking device, thus introducing errors and irregularities in the data furnished to the computer. To make an accurate determination of P. and Rt, the derived ratio must be averaged or smoothed. It is very difiicult to smooth the measured values of a quantity such as R or R5, the correct value of which is varying. Therefore, in accordance with the present invention, the observed positional data are operated upon so as to yield expressions for velocity components which are inherently constant, and these quantitles are averaged. The observed positional data are operated upon to give the components. parallel and perpendicular to the fixed axis, of the vector velocity of the air with respect to the target. This vector velocity is constant during the bombing run and is therefore appropriate for averaging. 
 In Fig. 3 the vector S is the vector velocity of the airplane with respect to the air, measured along the course, or head-to-tail axis of the airplane, by known means, such as a Pitot tube device. 
 The vector W represents the vector velocity of the air with respect to the target. which is the vector velocity of the wind with respect to the ground minus the vector velocity of the target with respect to the ground. 
 The vector V represents the vector velocity of the airplane with respect to the target. 
These three vectors are not independentbut a satisfy the relation. 
V=SW 
 Taking the :1: axis along PX, the axis fixed in space by the gyroscope, and the y axis normal to PX, the vector S may be resolved into the components +Se=+S cos x Sy=-S sin X in which +S cos x is the component of the airspeed along the fixed axis, and S sin x is the component of the airspeed transverse to the fixed axis. 
 In deriving Equation 1, the vector V was resolved into a vector PG designated R, and a vector GF, designated R6. In Fig. 3, GM and FN are normal to the fixed axis, and FL is normal to GM, thus FL equals MN. The angle PGM equals and as angle PGF is a right angle, angle FGM equals 6. Thus, PM equals -R cos 6 and MN equals FL which equals R6 sin 5, thus the component of V along the fixed axis, designated Vx, equals R cos 6+R6 sin a. 
 V the component of V transverse to the fixed axis, is FN, which evidently equals GM minus GL; thus Vy equals R sin a-Re cos 6. 
 As W=S+V, the components of W may be written as W,=S cos )\R cos 6+Rd sin is the ground speed transverse to the 3: axis. 
The values of Wx and Wy are averaged for the time of the bombing run, and in the averaging process the data are weighted in proportion to terminals 30, 3!. 
the accuracy of the measurements. Let the averaged values of these components be IT and W From Equations 3 and 4 E: S cos 0+ W, cos 6+ W, sin 6 i (7) R8=S sin 9-7, sin rH-TV, cos 6 where R and R6 are subject to the low inaccuracies of the weighted time averages of W): and Wy, and may be used in the computation of the correct course and release point by Equations 1 and 2. 
 The present device requires voltages proportional to the slant distance from the airplane to the target, and to the azimuth angle from the reference vertical plane to the vertical plane through the airplane and the target. Many known devices may be adapted to supply these voltages. an optical range finder, and the wiper moved in accordance with the movements of the range indicator to select a voltage proportional to the slant distance measured by the range finder. Another potentiometer may be mounted concentrically with the vertical axis of a theodolite sighted on the target, and the wiper moved in accordance with the rotation of the theodolite to select a voltage proportional to the angle turned by the theodolite. Or, as shown in Fig. 6, a radio locator of any suitable type, such as shown in British Patent 535,120, March 28, 1941, Compagnie Generale de Telegraphie Sans Fil, may be adapted to supply these voltages. In this particular locator, the range is indicated by the location of a bright spot on the surface of a cathode ray oscilloscope iii. A worm shaft ll, rotated by a hand wheel l2, or by a suitable motor, drives a nut i3 carrying a pointer l6 which is kept aligned withthe bright spot on the oscilloscope. The winding I9 of a potentiometer is mounted below the worm shaft H, the wiper i5 of the potentiometer being mounted upon, but insulated from the nut IS. A suitable source of voltage may be connected to the terminals l6, l1, and the wiper I5 may be led out to a terminal l8. The antennas and reflectors 20, 2! of the radio transmitter and receiver may be supported by a framework mounted on a shaft 22 journalled in a support 23 rotatably mounted in a base 24. The hand wheel 25, bevel gears 26 and gear 2? drive the gear 26 rotating the antennas in azimuth. A potentiometer winding 29 may be mounted upon the base 2d but insulated therefrom, and connected to the A wiper 33 may be mounted upon the support 23 but insulated therefrom and connected to a terminal 32. The voltage selected by the wiper 33 will then be proportional to the azimuth angle. While, for the sake of explanation, one specific type of iocator has been illustrated it is evident that the present invention is not limited to use with such a device, but will operated with many optical, mechanical, radio, sonic and other devices. 
 In Fig. 7 voltage from a suitable source 35 is applied to the terminals l6, H of the Winding i9 associated with the range indicator in Fig. 6. Voltage from the source 36 is applied to the windlugs 31 and 38 of two other potentiometers. The windings I9, 37, 38 have a resistance per unit length varying linearly with the wiper displacement, so that the voltages selected by the wipers A potentiometer may be mounted on i5, 39, 40 are proportional to the square of the distance moved by the wipers. 
 The voltage selected by the wiper i5 is, as indicated, of the opposite polarity to the voltages selected by the wipers 39, 40,. 
 The wiper 39 is set at the measured value of the height of the airplane. 
 The voltages selected by the wipers 39, 40 which are respectively equal to +11, the square of the height or altitude of the airplane, and approximately equal to +123, the square of the horizontal range, and the voltage from the wiper 55 which, due to the reversal of polarity, isproportional to -p the negative square of the slant distance, are respectively supplied to a summing amplifier 4!, which may be of the type shown in Fig. 8. 
 It will be noted from Fig. 2 that H and R are the sides of a right triangle, of which p is the hypotenuse, thus H +R -p should equal zero. 
 It the voltages summed up by the amplifier 4| are not equal to zero, the relay 42 will be operated. The relay 42 is a polar relay, normally biased to a central position, and moved in one direction or the other depending upon the polarity of the applied voltage. r 
 The relay 42 controls the supply and phase of alternating current from the source 43 to one phase of the two-phase motor 46, the other phase of the motor 46 being supplied from the source 43 through the 90-degree phase-shifting network 44. When the relay 42 is operated the motor 46 is started, rotating in a direction related to the polarity of the voltage applied to relay 42. The wiper 40 is moved by the shaft of the motor 46, either directly or through suitable gearing, flexible shafting or other mechanical expedient. The 
movement of the wiper 40 changes the voltage selected by the wiper 40 until the voltage in the output of amplifier 4! is reduced to zero and relay 42 is released. Under this condition and the movement of the wiper 40 indicates the value of R, the horizontal range. Other potentiometers may be mounted so that their wipers will also be rotated by the motor 46 an amount proportional to R. 
 The summing amplifier 4| of Fig. '1, which is shown in Fig. 8 may include any desired number of stages of amplification. Any suitable vacuum tubes may be used, though pentode tubes, or other tubes of high gain, will generally be found most eflicient. The heaters are supplied with power in known manner (not shown). 
 The resistors 41, 4B, 49 are connected to the control electrode of the vacuum tube 50, the terminal being grounded. The first stage vacuum tube 50 may conveniently be a single cathode double triode, though two separate tubes of any suitable type may be used. The cathode of the vacuum tube 50 is connected to a resistor 52 of fairly high resistance, say of the order of one or two hundred thousand ohms. The anode current flowing in the resistor 52 would tend to make the cathode of the vacuum tube 50 positive with respect to ground. A source of voltage 53, having the negative pole connected to the resistor 52, and the positive pole connected to ground on terminal 5|, compensates for the voltage drop in resistor 52, so that the cathode oi the vacuum tube 50 is at substantially ground potential. Since the total space current leaving the cathode is very nearly equal to the quotient of the voltage of 53 and the resistance of 52, their relative values 8 must be chosen so as to give reasonable current values in the triodes used. 
 The double triode .50 is connected so as to reduce drift due to variations in cathode activity as described in an'artlcle Sensitive D. C. amplifier with A. C. operation by S. E. Miller, published in Electronics, November 1941, page 27. 
 The upper section of the twin triode 50 is coupled to the vacuum tube 54 by an interstate coupling network of the type shown in United States Patent 1,751,527, March 25, 1930, H. 
' Nyquist, including the resistors 56, 51, 5s and a source of voltage 55 having the positive pole connected to resistor 55, the negative pole connected to resistor 58 and an intermediate point connected to ground. The resistor 56 may be adjustable to assist in making the potential of the cathode of vacuum tube 50 equal to ground potential. 
 The vacuum tube 54 is coupled by a. similar interstage coupling network to the vacuum tube 60. 
 Current from a source Si is supplied through resistor 62 to the anode of vacuum tube 60, returning through the cathode to the source 5|. 
 The wipers I5, 39, 40, Fig. '7, are respectively connected to resistors 41, 48, 49 and the winding of relay 42 is connected to terminals 63, 64. 
The source 6| tends to maintain the terminal 63 at a potential positive with respect to ground. 
This potential is opposed by a potential from the source 65 through the winding of relay 42 so that, in the absence of an applied signal, the terminals 63, G4 are at the same potential, that is, there is no potential difierence applied to the winding of the relay 42, Fig. 7. Assume that a voltage is applied to one of the resistors 41, 48 or 49, of such polarity that the amplified voltage causes the control grid of the vacuum tube 60 to become more negative. This voltage will reduce the anode-cathode current of the vacuum tube 60, reduce the voltage drop across the resistor 62, increase the positive potential of the terminal 53 with pect to ground and cause a current to flow from the terminal 63 to the terminal 64 through the winding of the relay 42, Fig. 7, operating the relay 42 in one direction. If the applied voltage is of such polarity that the amplified voltage causes the control grid of the vacuum tube current of the vacuum tube 60 will increase, increasing the voltage drop across the resistor 62, reducing the positive potential of the terminal 63 with respect to ground and causing a current to flow from the terminal 64 to the terminal 63 through the winding of the relay 42, Fig. 7, operating the relay 42 in the other direction. 
 A portion of the output of the vacuum tube 54 flows through the voltage dividing resistors 66, 61. A portion of the voltage drop across the resistor 61 is applied by the wire 68 to the control grid of the lower portion of the twin triode 50. A source of voltage 69 has the positive terminal connected to the anode of this portion of the twin triode 50 causing a. current to flow from anode. to cathode, thence through resistor 52 and source 53 back to source 69. This current flowing in the resistor 52 tends to make the cathode of vacuum tube 50 positive with respect to ground which is equivalent to a negative voltage on the control grid of the upper portion of the twin triode 50. This added voltage is included in the compensation by the source 53 so that normally the control grid of the upper section and the cathode oi. the twin triode 50 are at ground potential when the two anode currents have reasonable values. 
 The voltage from the resistor 61 is effectively a negative feedback to the control grid of the upper portion of the twin-triode 50. Assume a voltage is applied through one of the resistors 47, 48 or 49 to make the control grid of the upper section of the twin triode more negative. The anodecathode current of this section will decrease, decreasing the voltage drop in resistor 56, making the control grid of vacuum tube 54 more positive or less negative. The anode-cathode current of vacuum tube will increase, increasing the voltage drop in resistor '30 making the control grid of vacuum tubeSG and the control grid of the lower section of the twin triode 50 less positive or more negative. The anode-cathode current of the lower section of the twin triode 50 will decrease, decreasing the voltage drop in the resistor 52, decreasing the positive potential of the cathode, which is equivalent to decreasing the negative potential of the control grid of the upper section of the twin triode 50. Then when the applied signal made the control grid more negative, the feedback tended to make the control grid less negative and is thus a negative feedback. 
 It has been shown in United States Patent 2,251,973, August 12, 1941, E. S. L. Beale et al., for example, that the voltage across a capacitor may be proportional to the time derivative or rate of change of the applied voltage. The capacitor H difierentiates the applied voltage and feeds back a voltage proportional to the time derivative of the applied voltage which assists in preventing hunting and oscillation of the motor 36, Fig. 7. 
 The source of voltage 12 supplies voltage through resistor 73 to the potentiometer Id to adjust the bias voltages applied to the control grids of the vacuum tubes 60 and 50. 
 Fig. 9 shows a device similar to the device shown in Fig. 7 to produce a rotation of a shaft proportional to the angle 6, Fig. 1. A voltage source '15 is connected across the windings of the potentiometers it, 11. A voltage source 78 is connected across the winding of the potentiometer 29, which is also shown in Fig. 6. The 
windings of the potentiometers 16, H, 29 have alinear variation of resistance with movement of the wipers. The wiper is of potentiometer 76 is moved by the servomotor of the gyroscope 84 maintaining the fixed axis shown in Fig. 1 through the angle 7\ and selects a voltage proportional to The wiper 330i" the potentiometer 29 is moved by the antenna support 23, Fig. 6, through an angle 0 and due to the reversed polarity of source 10, selects a voltage proportional to -19. The potentiometer used in this device may be the potentiometer 29 shown in Fig. 6, or, a second potentiometer similarly associated with the antenna support, 23. The voltage selected by the wiper 80 is approximately proportional to (fl-A) The voltages selected by the wipers of the potentiometers are supplied to individual input resistors of a summin amplifier 8|, which may be of the type shown in Fig. 8. The voltage in the output of the amplifier 8| will be proportional to +A-0+(0- which should equal zero. If this voltage is not equal to zero, the relay 83 will :be operated, starting the motor 82, which moves the wiper 80 of potentimeter 17 to make the voltage from amplifier 8! equal to zero, releasing relay 83 and sto'ppingthe motor. The shaft of the motor 82 will then have moved through an angle 0 which is equal to the angle 6, Fig. 1. 
Thus, from the antenna support 23 of Fig. 6, 
 10 there is a movement proportional to the angle 0, Fig. 1; from the servomotor of the gyroscope 84 maintaining the fixed axis there is a movement proportional tothe angle x, Fig. 1; from theshaft of themotor 82. Fi 9, there is a movement proportional to 0-K, that is, the angle a, Fig. 1; and from the shaft of the motor 46, Fig. 7, there is a movement proportional to the horizontal range R, Fig. 2. It is obvious that more than one potentiometer winding may be associated with each of these devices, so that the wipers will be moved proportionately to the particular movement. Also, the servomotors may be geared, or otherwise connected, to the shafts, so that the motor may make more than one revolution for one revolution of the wipers. 
 In Fig. 11, a source or voltage 9i has its positive pole connected to one end of the winding 92 and its negative grounded pole connected to the other end of the winding 92. Another source of voltage 93 has its negative pole connected to one end of the winding 99 and its grounded positive pole connected to the other end of winding 94. The windings 92, 9e are preferably segments of the same circle, and have a variation of resistance such as to give a linear variation in voltage. The wipers 95, 96 are moved by the shaft of the motor 46, Fig. 7, but are insulated therefrom and from each other, to select voltages, respectively positive and negative, proportional to the horizontal range, R. 
 The voltages selected by the wipers 95, 96 are respectively applied to two diametrically opposite points 98, 99 of the potentiometer winding 97. The equidistant, intermediate, diametrically opposite points 100, [0| of the potentiometer winding 91 are connected to ground. The winding 9! has a resistance varying with length such that the voltage of the winding with respect to ground varies with a sinusoidal function. Assuming zero angle at the point 100 and that the wiper starts at point 100 and rotates clockwise, the voltage of the wiper with respect to ground will be zero at point I00, positive maximum at points 98, zero at point l0l, negative maximum at point 99, and zero at point I00 and this is the variation of a positive sine. If the direction of the wiper be turned through degrees, the sign of the sine will be reversed. Thus, the wiper 102, which is turned through 180 degrees will select a voltage varying with the negative sine of the angle of rotation, and the wiper 103, which leads the wiper I02 by 90 degrees will select a voltage varying with the negative cosine of the angle of rotation. The wipers I02, I03 are rotated by the shaft of the motor 82, Fig. 9, through the angle 6, Fig. 1, and are insulated from the shaft and from each other. As the voltage applied to the winding 9'! varies with R, the voltage selected by the wiper I02 varies with R sin 5, and the voltage selected by the wiper I03 varies with R cos 6. 
 Current from the source 9|. can flow through the upper half of the potentiometer winding HM to ground, thence back to source 9!. Current can also flow from source 93 through ground to the lower half of potentiometer winding 104, thence through connection I05 to source 93. The wipers I06, I 01 are simultaneously moved or manually adjusted in opposite directions to select equal positive and negative voltages with respect to ground proportional to the velocity of the vehicle with respect to the air, that is, the air speed S. 
 The positive voltage from the Wiper I06 and the negative voltage from the wiper I01 are apnvl wil plied tohiametrically opposite points of a. potentiometer winding I08, the equidistant intermediate points being grounded. The potentiometer winding I08 has a resistance varying with the length of the winding such that the voltage with respect to ground varies with a sinusoidal function, and thus has the same variation of voltage with respect to ground as the winding 91. The wipers III), III are moved by the shaft of the servomotor of the gyroscope maintaining the fixed axis through an angle proportional to A, the wipers H0, III being insulated from the shaft and from each other. With zero angle at the point I09 and clockwise rotation the wiper H will select a voltage proportional to the negative cosine, and-the wiper II I to the positive sine of the angle of rotation. As the applied volta is proportional to S, the voltage selected by the wiper. III] is proportional to cos A and the voltage selected by the wiper III is proportional to +8 sin A. 
 The resistors H2, H3 limit the currents drawn from the potentiometer winding I04, and thus make easier the design of the potentiometer winding. 
 In the measurement of the slant range and azimuth angle of the target, some errors are involved. The measuring process is not perfectly accurate, producing random errors in range which are roughly constant but tend to decrease slightly with decreasing range; and random errors in azimuth angle which are in the form of angular errors, but are equivalent to a linear error which also decreases roughly with the reciprocal of the decreasing range. The observers will tend to overrun and underrun the target in tracking, producing a more or less regular error, depending on the skill of the observer, and tending to decrease with decreasing range. As the measurements are expressed in the form of electrical voltages, which are conveniently selected by means of wire-wound potentiometers. there will also be a step-like error due to the sudden variation in voltage from one turn of wire to the next. These small errors in the positional measurements can produce large momentary errors in the derived ratio R. and R6 which must be averaged out. It is dimcult to average or smooth an inherently variablequantity, such as R or R6, to produce the most probable value without reducing the accuracy of the measurement. In accordance with the present invention, these inherently variable quantities are combined to give quantities which, under the assumptions usually made in bombing, should be constant. In particular, it is assumed that for some time before releasing the bomb, and during the fall of the bomb, the wind and target velocities remain constant in direction and magnitude. Thus, it is convenient and consistent to express R and R6 in terms of the assumed constant velocity of the air with respect to the target. R and R6 are resolved into components along the X and Y axes. By subtracting the airplanes airspeed components S cos A and S sin A, in effect the air velocity is determined with respect to a point fixed to the target. 
 The observation of the target may start when the distance is too long for reliable results. Thus, some time after the target has come under observation, the operator presses a key and the observed data are sent to the computer. Observed data are treated as above to given the components of the velocity of the air with respect to the target, and these values are electrically smoothed or averaged. As the earlier observations are not as accurate as the later observations, the averaging process is weighted'approximately-in accordance with an inverse range function. This result is attained by switching in added averaging elements at regular intervals as the range decreases, so that the later observations will have materially more effect on the final result than the earlier observations. 
 The voltage selected by the wiper I03 proportional to -R cos 6, and the voltage selected by the wiper IIIl, proportional to S cos A are supplied to the :0 wind computer, Fig. 10; the voltage selected by the wiper I02 proportional to -R sin a and the voltage selected by the wiper III proportional to +8 sin A are supplied to the 1 wind computer, Fig. 10. 
 In Fig. 10 the voltage proportional to S cos A is applied through connection 3I2, resistor Ill, and variable resistor II5, to the amplifier IIO, which may be of the type shown in Fig. 13. The resistors H1, H8 are connected by connection I I9 in serial relationship across the output of the amplifier H6, and negative feedback is supplied from the junction of resistors III, II! through resistor II5 to the input of amplifier III. 
 The voltage proportional to, +3 sin A is similarly applied through connection SIB, resistor I20, and variable resistor I2I, to the amplifier I22, which may also be of the type shown in Fig. 13. The resistors I23, I24 are connected by connection I25, in serial relationship across the output of the amplifier I22, and negative feedback is supplied from the junction of resistors I22, I24 through resistor I2I to the input of amplifier I22. 
 The voltage proportional to R cos 8 is connected through connection 3I3, resistor I26, capacitor I21 and connection I69 to the center armature of relay I28. proportional to R sin 6 is connected through connection 3I4, resistor I 29 and capacitor I30 to the right hand armature of relay I28. At the start of the bombing run, relay I28 is held operated, grounding both of these armatures. 
 After the bombing run has started and the observations have settled down, the key In is operated, releasing the relay I28. When relal I28 is released, the voltage proportional to R cos a is supplied through resistor I26 and capacitor I21 to the input of amplifier I I6; and the voltage proportional to --R sin 6 is supplied through resistor I29 and capacitor I30 to the input of amplifier I22. As shown in United States Patent 2,251,973, August 12, 1941, E. S. I3. Beale et 9.1., when a voltage is supplied through a-capacitor to the input of an amplifier, the output or the amplifier will contain a component proportional to the time derivative, or rate of change, of the applied voltage. Thus, the output of the amplifier I I8 will have a component proportional to (-R cos 5) and the output of the amplifier I22 will have a component proportional to -%(R sin 6) A-large value of reverse feedback is supplied by the connections I I9 and I25, thus reducing the apparent input impedances to ground of the amplifiers H6 and I22 to a very low value, increasing the accuracy of the diflerentiating and the summing actions. 
similarly, the voltage 13 The amplifier H8 adds the applied voltages proportional to --S cos A and and reverses the polarity to produce a voltage proportional to +Wx. Similarly the amplifier I22 adds the applied voltages proportional to and reverses the polarity to produce a voltage proportional to +Wy. 
 The resistors I25, I29 smooth the applied voltages. The time constants of the resistor I26 and capacitor I23, and or the resistor I29 and capacitor I35 should be iairly small. 
 The release of relay I28 also connects capacitor I32 and resistor 533 in serial relationship from the output to the input of the amplifier I I6; and connects the capacitor I34 and resistor I35 in serial relationship from the output to the input of the amplifier I22. The feedbacks through capacitors I32 and I3 5, integrate or average the applied voltages, though, as capacitors I32 and I34 are comparatively small, this averaging is small. 
 Positive voltage is applied from the source I36, through resistor I37 to a control electrode of the three element cold cathode device I38, which may be a Western Electric Type 3130 vacuum tube. As long as the relay I28 is operated, the control electrode is grounded through resistor I39, and the applied voltage is too small to break down the tube. When the relay I28 is released, the voltage iron: the source I36, through resistor I31, in- 
creases the charge on capacitor I'M), until the voltage applied to the control electrode breaks down the tube, permitting current from the source I36, and the capacitor III to flow through the tube I38 and the winding of relay M2, operating relay I 3.2. The resistance of resistor I31, and the capacitance of capacitor MD are so related to the breakdown voltage of tube I38 that a delay of some ten seconds is produced between the release of relay I28 and the operation of relay I52. 
 The operation of key ISI and re ay Hi2 completes a locking circuit for relay I42 from the source I63 through the upper springs of key I3I, left make springs and winding of relay Hi2 and ground back to source I43; and connects the source M3 through the upper springs of key I3I and the right make springs of relay M2 to connection I441. 
 The grounded wiper IE is rotated by the shaft or the motor 36, Fig. 7, proportionately to the horizontal range to the target. At some convenient range, the wiper I45 groundsthe contact MG. 
 When contact I56 is grounded, current can flow from battery I43, through key I3I, springs of relay IIIZ, connection Ii l, winding of relay I5I, break contacts of second spring pile-ups of relays I52, I55, I56, I58, I50 and connection I I! to contact I65, operating relay I5I, which locks up through the middle grounded make contact. 
 The operation of relay I5I connects capacitor I66 and resistor I43 in parallel relationship with capacitor I32 and resistor I33, increasing the loading function of amplifier H6; and connects capacitor "II and resistor I62 in parallel relationship with capacitor I35 and resistor I35, increasing the loading function of amplifier I22. 
 As the range continues to decrease, the wiper I 5 is rotated until contact I63 is grounded. 
When contact I53 is grounded, current can flow from battery I63, through key I3I, springs of relay I I2, connection I44, winding of relay I52, break contacts of second spring pile-ups of relays I53, I55, I51, I59 and connection I55 to contact I63, operating relay I52, which, at the second spring pile-up transfers the chain connection from the winding of relay I5I to the winding of relay I53 and locks up through the grounded make contact of the third pile-up. 
 The operation of relay I52, at the upper spring pile-up, connects capacitor I55 and resistor I66 in parallel relationship with capacitor I32 and resistor I35; and, at the lower spring-pile-up connects capacitor IG'I and resistor I68 in parallel relationship with capacitor I35 and resistor I35. 
 The continued rotation of wiper I 35 causes the operation of the remaining chain relays I53 to I50, in succession, until the bomb has been released, or minimum range is reached. 
 The successive operations of the chain relays I53 to I60 connect a succession of capacitors and resistors in parallel relationship with capacitor I32 and resistor I35, and in parallel relationship with capacitor I35 and resistor I35, thus progressively changing the averaging properties of amplifiers H6 and I22. The resistors may conveniently be of about'10,000 ohms, capacitors I32, I 34 about .1 microfarad each, capacitors M8, I6I about .25 microfarad each and the remaining capacitors, such as I65, I67, about .35 microfarad each. 
 When the bombing run is completed, the release of key I3I unlocks relay I52 and all the chain relays I5I to I60 which may be locked up, and operates relay I28, restoring the circuit to its initial condition in preparation for the next bombing run. 
The quantity Wx (and the quantity Wy) is a velocity; thus, the weighted average of this velocity is, by definition: 
 t jgW Fdi Fdt in which to is the time at which the ave-raging process starts, and F is the weighting function. 
By evaluating the time rate of change from the above equation, the equation may be manipulated into the diflferential form: 
W -W;--KI V =O 10 in which K usually varies with time, and, 
 K= jZFdt 'As W +S cos (R cos 6) then %(13 cos 6)+S cos l-TL-KTIZ O (11) put terminal of amplifier I16 to ground is approximately represented by a capacitance Oz in parallel relationship with a resistance Rt. 
 The constants of the circuit of Fig. 11 are adjusted to produce scale factors such that the voltage selected by the wiper I08 is 'K1R cos 6, and the voltage selected by the wiper H is RiClKlS cos A, where K1 is a constant. 
 Including these limitations, the output of amplifier II6, equal to KzWx, obeys the following equation: 
. which is equivalent to Equation 11 if and These abrupt changes are smoothed out, by the series resistors, such as resistors I26, I29. 
 The complete circuit produces a result that closely approximates to a weight function which is zero before time to and increases thereafter with the reciprocal of the horizontal range. 
 The amplifiers H6 and I22 reverse the polarities of the applied voltages. Thus, as the input to the amplifier H6 is proportional to Wx, the output of amplifier H6 is proportional to +Wx; and the output of amplifier I22 is proportional t0 +wy. 
 The output voltage of amplifier H6 is supplied by-connection 3I0 to the point I10 of the potentiometer winding "I, Fig. 11. A portion of the output of amplifier H6 is supplied, through connection 3H and resistor I12, to a summing amplifier I13, which may be of the type shown in Fig, 13, having a feedback resistor I14. The amplifier I13 reverses the polarity of the applied voltage. The output f the amplifier I13, which is proportional to Wx is supplied to the point I15 of the potentiometer winding Hi. 
 The potentiometer winding I1I, like the windings 81 and I08, has a resistance varying with the length of the winding such that the voltage with respect to ground varies with a sinusoidal function. With zero angle at the point I16, and clockwise rotation, the wiper I11 selects 9. voltage proportional to a negative sine, and the wiper I18 selects a voltage proportional to a positive cosine. The wipers I11, I18 are moved by the shattof motor 82, Fig. 9, an angle equal to angle 6, Fig. 1, the wipers I11, I18 being insulated from the shaft and each other. The voltage selected by the wiper I11 is thus proportional to W; 
' sin 6 and the voltage selected by the wiper I18 is proportional to I-Wx cos 6. 
The output voltage g f theamplifier I22, Fig. 
10, proportional to +W, is supplied by connec- 16 tion 8I8 to the point I 0! the potentiometer winding I8I, which has a variation in'resistance similar to the variation in resistance of the winding "I. 
 The output voltage of the amplifier I22, Fig. 10, is supplied by connection 8" to the input resistor of amplifier I82, and the polarity of this voltage is reversed in the amplifier I82, which is similar to amplifier I13 and supplied to the point I83 01 the winding I8I. 
 With zero angle at the point I84 and clockwise rotation for increasing angles, the wipers I85 and I86 respectively select voltages proportional to a positive sine and a positive cosine. The wiper I86 is therefore displaced degrees with respect to wiper I11. The wipers I85, I86, like the wipers I11, I18, are moved by the shaft of motor 82, Fig. 9, an amount proportional to angle 6, Fig. 1, and are insulated from the shaft and from each other. The voltage selected by the wiper I86 is thus proportional to +Wy sin 6 and the voltag e selected by the wiper I86 is proportional to +Wy cos 6. 
 The voltages selected by the wipers I 08, I01, respectively proportional to +8 and S are supplied, through resistors H2, H3, to points I81, I88 
of potentiometer winding I88. The winding I89, 
like windings 81, I08, "I and I8I, has a, resistance varying so as to produce a voltage varying with a sinusoidal function. The wipers I80, I8I 
+Wu cos 6 are respectively supplied, through resistors I83, I84, I85 to the input of a summing amplifier I86 which may be of the type shown in Fig. 13, having a feedback resistor I81. The summing amplifier I86 sums up the voltages +S sin 0- 15: sin 6+1? cos 6 which, from Equation 8 are equal to R6. As the amplifier I86 also reverses the polarity of the applied voltages, the potential of the connectiogl with respect to ground is proportional to R6. 
 The voltage selected by the wiper I10, proportional to +Wz cos 6; the voltage selected by the wiper I8I, proportional to S cos 0; and the voltag e selected by the wiper I85 proportional to I-Wy sin 6 are respectively supplied through resistors I88, 200, 20I to a summing amplifier 202, similar to amplifier I86 and having a feedback resistor 203. The amplifier 2 I I2 sums up the voltages 8 cos 0+W cos 6+Wv sin 6, which, from Equation 7. equal 1 Thus, as the amplifier m reverses the polarity of the applied voltages, the 
potential of the connection 204, with respect to 17 angle exceeds 90 degrees the vehicle would be flying away from the target. 
 The angle 0 is thus always in the first quadrant, Where the sine ,and cosine are of the same sign or in the fourth quadrant where the cosine is unchanged, but the sine changes sign. In a potentiometer having only one wiper arm, the winding may be spread over the whole circle, the wiper arm being moved through 20. For a cosine function, the voltages applied to the two halves of the winding are of the same polarity. For a sine function, the voltages applied to the twohalves of the winding are of opposite polarity. In a potentiometer having two wiper arms, the winding may extend over the whole circumference, or may be limited to three quadrants extending over the circumference, the arms being geared to rotate through /2 6. 
 The potentiometer winding 205 has a resistance varying with a cosinusoidal function inthe first nd fourth quadrants, the zero angle axis of the vehicle being at the point 206. The i 201 is driven by the support 23, Fig. 6, at twice the rotational speed of the support 23, say by means of suitable gearing. The voltage of the connection I98 is applied at the point 206. The voltage se1e c ted by the wiper 201 will be proportional to -B6 cos 0. 
 The potentiometer winding 208 has a resistance varying with a sinusoidal function in the first and fourth quadrants, the zero angle being at the ground. The voltage of the connection 206 is applied directly to the upper part of the winding 208. The voltage of the connection 205 is applied through a resistor 209 to an amplifier 210, which may be of the type shown in Fig. 13, having a feedback resistor 2| I The amplifier 2? reverses the polarity of the voltage of the connection 204, and supplies voltage of reversed polarity to the lower half of the winding 208. The wiper 2l2, like the wiper 201, is moved through twice the angle of the support 23, though both wipers are insulated from the drive and each other. The wiper 212 will select a voltage proportional to -R sin 0. 
The voltages selected by the wipers 201 and 212 are respectively supplied through resistors 2l3, 2M to an amplifier 215 of the type shown in Fig. 14 which adds these voltages and reverses the polarity. The output voltage of amplifier 2l5 tends to be proportional to R6 cos 0+R sin 0, which is the component of the ground speed V transverse to the course of the airplane. 
 The output voltage of the amplifier 2| 5 is supplied to the winding of a potentiometer 2l6 having a uniform variation of resistance. The wiper 2I1 is moved by the motor 46, Fig. 7, but is insulated therefrom to select a voltage with respect to ground proportional to the horizontal range R and this voltage is applied through the feedback resistor 2l8 to the input of the amplifier 2|5. 
 For simplicity, consider the condition when a single voltage, E1 is applied, say through the resistor 213 to the amplifier 2|5. Let the resistor 213 have a resistance R1, Then the input current where Eo=voltage at amplifier input. A voltage E2 will appear in the output circuit and this voltage is applied across the Winding 215. The wiper 2|! selects a voltage REz. Let the resistor 2; 
The eflect 01' high negative feedback is to keep Eo=0. Hence, since a: e E1 R2 1]- 12, R] R: i and Let R1=R2, then The output voltage of the amplifier 2I5 is thus l/R of the sum of the input voltages. If the resistors R1 and R2 are not equal,- theoutput voltage is changed in the ratio of R2 to R1. The output voltage is also reversed in polarity. 
 The output voltage of the amplifier 2l5, proportional to sin 0+5 cos 6) is applied to a potentiometer winding 2l9. The wiper 220 is adjusted to select a voltage proportional to the value of the trail T for the particular speed and altitude of the vehicle. The wiper 220 will thus select a voltage proportional to sin 0+5 cos 0) This voltage is supplied to the steering circuit 228, together with a voltage from the connection I98 equal to -R6. 
 The steering circuit 22l, and the amplifier 2l5, shown in Fig. 12. produce a current proportional to the difierence of the input voltages sin 8+1 tTi cos 0) -(I 5 which may be written cos 0+ sin 0) portional to R, is applied to the potentiometer winding 223, The wiper 224- is adjusted to select a voltage proportional to the time of fall if for the particular altitude of the vehicle. Ehe voltage selected will be proportional to Rt A source of voltage 225 has the negative pole connected tov one end of the potentiometer winding 226. The other end of the Winding 226 and the positive pole of the source 225 are grounded. The wiper 221 is adjusted to select a voltage proportional to the proper trail T for the speed and elevation of the vehicle. This voltage is applied to the mid-point of the potentiometer winding 220 which is similar to the winding 20-5. The wiper 229, like the wiper 201, is moved proportionally to the angle 0, and is insulated from the drive shaft. The wiper 229 thus selects a voltage proportional to T cos 6. The wiper 221-, and the wiper 220 may be ganged to move simultaneously; 
The source of voltage 225 also has the negative pole connected to a potentiometer winding 230. The other end of winding 230 is grounded. The wiper 231 is moved by the motor 48, Fig. 7, proportionally to the horizontal range to select a voltage proportional to --R. The wiper 231 is insulated from the drive shaft. 
The volta g e selected by the wiper 224, proportional to -ltt; the voltage selected by the wiper 229, proportional to T cos 8; and the voltage selected by the wiper 2st. proportional to -R are respectively supplied, through resistors 232, 233, 234, to the release circuit 235, which may be of the type shown in Fig. 15, and which sums up the applied voltages. The output of the release circuit 235 is thus proportional to R+T cos 9+Rt, Equation 2. When this voltage falls to zero, a relay or latch 236 in the output of the release circuit 235 is released to drop the bomb. A meter may also be connected to the output of the release circuit to indicate the approach to the correct release point. 
 The summing amplifiers 6, I22 of Fig. 10; I13, I82, I96, 202 of Fig. 11 and 210, of Fig. 12 may all be of the type shown in Fig. 13. 
 In Fig. 13, the signal voltages are applied to the control grid of the upper section of the twin vacuum tube 240. The source 24! supplies anode current through the coupling resistor 242. 
The source 243 supplies current to the anode of the lower section, which is connected so as to reduce drift due to variations in cathode activity as described in an article Sensitive D, C. amplifier with A. C. operation by S. E. Miller, published in Electronics, November 1941, page 27. The combined anode currents flow through the resistor 244, which is of fairly high resistance. The source 245 impresses a potential with respect to ground which opposes the potential due to the voltage drop in the resistor 244. The resistor 244 may be varied to adjust the space currents in. the vacuum tube 246. 
 The control grid of the vacuum tube 246 is directly connected to the anode of the upper section of the vacuum tube 240 and is thus at a positive potential with respect to ground. The cathode of the vacuum tube 246 is therefore connected to a vacuum tube 256. The cathode of vacuum tube 250 is connected to the negative pole or the source 251. The ositive pole of source 251 and the nesative pole of source 243 are grounded. I! the vacuum tubes 248 and 250 have the same anodecathode resistance, and'the sources 243, 25l are or the same potential, or if the ratio of the anodecathode resistances of the vacuum tubes 2". is the same as the ratio of the potentials oi! the 0 sources 243, 25!, these four elements will form a the source 243 so that the potential difference between the control grid and cathode of the vacuum tube 246 is of suitable value. 
 The vacuum tube 246 is coupled to the vacuum tube 241 by an interstage network of the type shown in United States Patent 1,751,527, March 25, 1930, H. Nyquist. The anode circuit is supplied from the source 2. and the grid bias from the source 245. The vacuum tube 241 is coupled to the vacuum tube 248 by a similar interstage coupling network. 
 A portion of the output voltage of the vacuum tube 246 is tapped at the point 249 and supplied to the grid of the vacuum tube 250. Thus, the direct signals are supplied to the grid of vacuum tube 250; while vacuum tube 241 acts as a phase inverter and amplifier to supply signals of reversed polarity to the grid of vacuum tube 248. 
 The control grids of the vacuum tubes 241, 250 are biased to a fairly high negative voltage with respect to ground, and this voltage is largely compensated by a negative bias applied to the oathodes of the vacuum tubes 241, 250 by the source 25l. 
 Positive potential from the source 243 is supplied by connection 253 to the anode of vacuum tube 248. The cathode of vacuum tube 248 is connected to terminal 252 and to the cathode of bridge, and in the absence of an applied s al the terminal 252 and ground are conjugate to each other. that is, the terminal 252 is at ground potential. 
 It a negative signal voltage be applied to the control grid of the vacuum tube 250, an inverted signal will be applied to the vacuum tube 248, the anode-cathode resistance of vacuum tube 250 will increase and the anode-cathode resistance of vacuum tube 248 will decrease. thus unbalancing the bridge and causing a potential to appear at the terminal 252. To counteract the tendency of this potential toward diminishing the response of tube 248, the signal voltage applied to the grid of this tube must be larger than that applied to the grid of tube 250. This condition is brought about by theamplification in the stage which includes tube 241. 
 I'he screen grid of tube 248 is connected to source 241 and the screen grid of tube 250 is connected to source 243. The cathodes are heated in known manner (not shown). 
 Using commercial radio receiving tubes, the source 241 may be about positive 270 volts, the source 245 about negative 270 volts, the source 243 about positive '100 volts and the source 25! about negative volts, all with respect to ground. 
 A negative voltage applied to terminal 254 will decrease the anode-cathode current of tube 240, decreasing the voltage drop in resistor 242, increasing the positive potential of the control grid of tube 2415. Increasing the positive potential of th grid of tube 246 will increase the anodecathode current, increasing the voltage drop in the coupling resistors, and reducing the positive potential applied to the control grid of tube 241. and of point 249 connected to the control grid of tube 250. As a reduction of positive potential is equivalent to an increase of negative potential, the variation in potential of the control grid of tube 250 is of the same polarity as the voltage applied to the terminal 254. An increase in negative potential on the grid of tube 241 reduces the anode-cathode current, reducing the voltage drop in the coupling resistors and increasing the positive potential of the grid of tube 248. The increased negative potential on the grid of tube 250 will reduce the anode-cathode current while the increased positive potential on the grid of tube 248 will increase the anode-cathode current; thus, current will flow from terminal 252 through an attached load to ground. Thus, if a negative voltage is applied to terminal 254, a positive voltage appears on terminal 252, or the polarity oi the applied signal is reversed by the amplifier. 
 When a feedback resistor is connected between terminal 252 and terminal 254 and a plurality of voltages are applied through individual resistors, as shown, for example, in connection with repeaters I96, 202, Fig. 11, the negative feedback controlled by the ratio of the resistance in the feedback path to the resistance in series with the source. 
 The summing amplifier 215 and steering circuit 22! of Fig. 12 are shown in detail in Figs. 14 and 14A. 
 The resistors 2l3, 2M, Fig. 12, are connected to terminal 255, Fig. 14, which is connected to the control grid of the lower section of the twin triode 256. The positive pole of a voltage source 251 is applied to the anode of this section. The cathode of the tube 256 is connected through a resistor 258 and a negative voltage source 259 to ground. The control grid of the upper section is connected to ground, and current from a positive voltage source 260 is supplied through resistor 26B to the anode of the upper section. Assume a negative voltage is applied to terminal 255, decreasing the anode current of the lower section and decreasing the voltage drop in resistor 252. The cathode of tube 256 then has a negative potential with respect to ground, which is equivalent to a positive potential on the control grid of the upper section. The lower section or tube 255 thus operates as an inverter to impress on the control grid of the upper section a voltage having a polarity which is reversed with respect to the applied voltage. The polarity is again reversed in the upper section so that the voltage on the grid of the tube 262 is of the same polarity as the signal. This voltage is again reversed by the tube 252 so that the voltage on the grid of vacuum tube 263 is of a polarity reversed with respect to the applied signal. 
 The cathode of vacuum tube 263 is connected to ground through the potentiometer windings 2E6, 219, Fig. 12, in parallel relationship. 
 The negative pole of voltage source 259 is connected through resistor 26% to the cathode of vacuum tube 263. The positive pole of the source of voltage 260 is connected by connection 285 directly to the anode of vacuum tube 263. The positive pole of voltage source 259 and the negative pole of voltage source 260 are grounded. 
 The resistance of the resistor 266 is selected so that, in the absence of an applied signal, the sources 259, 269, the resistor 26d and the anode-cathode resistance of vacuum tube 263 form a balanced bridge; thus point 266 is conjugate with respect to ground and no voltage is applied to windings 218, 2|9. 
 Assuming a negative voltage to be applied to terminal 255, this will cause a positive voltage to be applied to the control grid of the vacuum tube 263, increasing the anode-cathode current of vacuum tube 263 and unbalancing the bridge. The point 266 will become positive with respect to ground, that is, the wiper 2!! will become positive with respect to ground. Wiper M1 is connected by terminal 261, through resistor 2|8, Fig. 12, to terminal 255 and the control grid of vacuum tube 256. Thus, a negative voltage with respect to ground applied to the control grid of vacuum tube 256 produced a voltage on wiper 211 which was positive with respect to ground, and this voltage was applied to the same control grid, forming a reverse or negative feedback. 
The unbalance voltage between the point 266 The voltage from the connection I98, Fig. 12, is applied through terminal 269 to the control grid of a vacuum tube 270. 
 Positive voltage from the source 260 is supplied by connection 265 through resistors 2'", 272 to the anode of vacuum tube 268; and through resistors 213, 214 and meter 215 to the anode of vacuum tube 219. 
 The cathodes of vacuum tubes 268, 210 are connected through resistor 216 and a negative voltage source 217 to ground and the negative pole of source 26!). The anode-cathode resistances of the vacuum tubes 268, 270 with resistors 2, 212, 213, 21 i and meter 222 form a bridge which, in the absence of a signal voltage, is balanced. The meter 222 has a center zero for normal value of anode current in vacuum tube 210 and this zero may be accurately set by adjusting resistor 215. 
 Assuming that vacuum tubes 268 and 270 are of the same type, having the same mutual concluctances and internal impedances; that the product of the mutual conductance of a tube and the internal impedance is large compared to unity; that the product of the mutual conductance of a tube and the resistance of resistor 216 is also large compared to unity; that the resistance of resistors 21!, 272 equals the resistance of resistors 213, 21 5, an; large compared to the internal impedance of the tubes, then, it may be shown that the unbalance voltage sending current through 213, 21 3, and meter 222 equals g is mutual conductance of tubes, 
R1 is internal impedance of tubes, 
R is resistance of resistors 21! and 212, V1 is voltage applied by wiper 229, 
V2 is voltage applied by terminal 269. 
The voltage applied by the wiper 22B is proapplied to terminal 269 is proportional to -R6. These voltages are equal, and vary equally, when the airplane is flying on the correct track, and the needle of the meter 222 reads in the center. If these voltages are not equal, then the needle of the meter 222 will be deflected from zero. 
 The release circuit, designated 235 in Fig. 12, is shown in detail in Fig. 15. The resistors 232, 233, 23 i, Fig. 12, are connected to terminal 280 of Fig. 15, terminal 28! being grounded. The voltage applied to the control grid of the upper section of vacuum tube 282 is thus proportional to -Rt-T cos 0-R, and this negative voltage on the control grid of vacuum tube 282, reduces the anode current of vacuum tube 282 to a small value. The anode current of vacuum tube 282 is supplied by voltage source 283 through the anode coupling resistor 284. The lower section of the twin triode vacuum tube 282 is connected like the lower section of vacuum tube 240, Fig. 13, to compensate for cathode temperature drift. 
 The voltage applied to terminal 280 is amplified by the upper sections of the twin triode vacuum tubes 282, 281 and supplied to the control electrode of the gas-filled triode 289. A positive voltage from the source 299 is applied to the cathode of the gas-filled triode 289, to produce a negative bias on the control electrode. The negative bias from the source 299, with the negative amplified signal, holds the tube 299 inoperative until the amplified signal falls to zero, reducing the negative bias on the control electrode of the gas-filled triode 289 and permitting the tube to fire. 
 Current from the source 283 is supplied by connection 29l, key 292 and resistor 293 to charge capacitor 294. When the gas-filled tube 289 fires, the capacitor 294 discharges through the relay or latch winding 236 and tube 289, energizing the winding 236 and releasing the bomb. The discharge of capacitor 294 permits current to flow from source 283 through resistor 293, causing a voltage drop across resistor 293 which lights a small neon lamp 295, or other indicator, to indicate the release of the bomb. Upon completion of the bombing run, when the control electrode of the gas-filled triode 289 is again biased negatively, the key 292 is operated, breaking the circuit from the source 283 and permitting the tube 289 to restore. 
 The voltage applicgi to theterminal 289 releases the bomb when -Rt--T cos o--R=0, which is the correct release condition, but if no precautions were taken, the bomb might be released when the airplane was not headed properly. The steering circuit of Fig. 14A is arranged to block the bomb release circuit of Fig. 15 at all times when the airplane is oil the correct track. 
 The anodes of a double diode vacuum tube 296 are connected to the outer ends of the resistors 21l, 213, Fig. 14A. The outer ends of two equal resistors 291, 219 are also connected respectively to the anodes of tube 296. The junctions of resistors 291, 219 are connected through resistor 298 to the cathode of tube 296. 
 When the airplane is on the correct track, equal voltages are applied to the control electrodes of vacuum tubes 268, 219, and assuming the resistances of resistors 212, 214 are equal and the resistances of resistors 2", 213 are equal, equal voltages are applied to the anodes of tube 296. As the resistors 291, 219 are equal, no current flows in tube 296. When the airplane is oil the correct track, the voltages applied to the control grids of the vacuum tubes 268, 219 are not equal, and the anode-cathode currents are not equal. Assume the anode-cathode current oi tube 268 to decrease while the anode-cathode current of tube 219 increases. The decreased current in resistor 21l will permit the positive potential of the outer end of resistor 2" to rise, while the increased current in resistor 213 will cause the positive potential of the outer end of resistor 213 to fall. Current can then flow from the lower anode of tube 296 to the cathode and through resistors 298, 291. 
 Similarly, when the anode-cathode current of tube 298 increases while the anode-cathode current of tube 219 decreases, then current can flow from the upper anode of tube 298 to the cathode and through resistors 298, 219. Thus, whenever the airplane is oil the correct track, the cathode of tube 296 and the free end of resistor 298 become more positive with respect to ground. This po=- tential will appear on terminal 299, which is connected to terminal 399, Fig. 15. 
' Terminal 399 is connected through resistor "I to a' resistor 392 connected to the control electrode of the lower section of the twin triode 281. 
The negative pole of the voltage source 288 is also connected through resistor 393 to resistor 392. The potential of source 288 is selected so that, when the airplane is on course, the anodecathode current of tube 281 is small. When the airplane is oil? course, the positive potential developed across resistor 298, Fig. 14A, is applied through resistors 39l, 392 to the control electrode of the lower section of tube 281, and causes the anode-cathode current of tube 281 to increase. 
 The source 299 is connected through the winding of relay 394 to the anode of the lower section of tube 281. When the airplane is on course, the anode-cathode current of tube 281 is too small to operate relay 394. When the airplane is off the correct track, this anode current increases, operating relay 394 and connecting negative voltage from the source 285 to the control grid of the gas-filled triode 289, preventing the triode 289 from firing and releasing the bomb. Thus, even if the release voltages have fallen to the correct value, the bomb cannot be released, unless, at the same time, the airplane is on the correct track. 
What is claimed is 1. In a computer for an aerial vehicle, a source of voltage varying with the component of air speed of said vehicle along an arbitrary axis, a 
second source of voltage varying with the horizontal displacement of said vehicle along said axis, an amplifier having an input and an output circuit, means for connecting said first source of voltage to the input circuit of said amplifier, means including a series capacitor for connecting said second source of voltage to the input circuit of said amplifier, and a feedback path from the output circuit to the input circuit of said amplifier including capacitor means varied in capacity with the displacement of said vehicle. 
 2. In a computer for an aerial vehicle, a source of voltage varying with the component of air speed of said vehicle along an arbitrary axis, a second source of voltage varying with the horizontal displacement of said vehicle along said axis, said voltages containing random errors, an amplifier having an input and an output circuit, means for connecting said first source of voltage to the input circuit of said amplifier, means including a series capacitor for connecting said second source of voltage to the input circuit of said amplifier, a resistor connected from the output circuit to the input circuit of said amplifier, and means including .a second capacitor connected from the output circuit to the input circuit of said amplifier, whereby the random fluctuations in said applied voltages are smoothed to the most probable values in the output of said amplifier. 
 3. In a computer for an aerial vehicle, means on said vehicle for observing an object on the earth including a shaft rotated proportionally to the horizontal distance from the vehicle to the obiect. a pair of potentiometers having uniform windings and wipers moved by said shaft, two sources of voltages of opposite polarity respective- 13 connected across said windings, syroscopic means for maintaining an arbitrary axis fixed in space. means associated with said gyroscopic means including a second shaft rotated proportionally to the angle between said axis and the 25 eter, means associated with said y os op c means including a third shaft rotated proportionally to the angle between said axis and the axis of said vehicle, a fourth potentiometer having a winding varying in resistance with a sinusoidal function and a fourth wiper moved by said third shaft, a second pair of potentiometers having uniform windings connected respectively to said sources of voltages and a pair of wipers adjusted to the air speed of said vehicle respectively connected to the winding of said fourth potentiometer, an amplifier having an input and an output circuit, and means connecting said third and fourth wipers to the input circuit of said amplifier whereby the. 
voltage of the output circuit of said amplifier is varied proportionally to a component related to said axis of the velocity of the air relative to said object. 
 4. In a computer for an aerial vehicle, a source of voltage proportional to the component along an arbitrary axis of the vector velocity of the air with respect to a target, a first potentiometer having a winding varying in resistance with a, sinusoidal function connected to said source and a wiper, a second source of voltage proportional to the component normal to said axis of the vector velocity of the air, a second potentiometer having a winding varying in resistance with a sinusoidal function connected to said second source and a second wiper, motor means gyroscopically controlled to move both said wipers proportionately to the angie between said axis and the vertical plane including said vehicle and said target, a third source of voltage proportional to the air speed of said vehicle, a, third potentiometer having a, winding varying in resistance with a sinusoidal function connected to said third source and a third wiper, motor means moving said third wiper proportionately to the angle between the axis of saidvehicle and the vertical plane including said vehicle and said target, a reverse feedback amplifier havin an input and an output circuit, a plurality of resistors, and means for connecting said wipers individually through one of said resistors to the input circuit of said amplifier whereby the voltage of the output circuit of said amplifier is varied proportionally to a component related to said axis of the ground speed of said vehicle. 
 5. In a computer for an aerial vehicle, a source of voltage with respect to ground proportional to the smoothed vector velocity of the air along an arbitrary axis, a first potentiometer having a sinusoidally varying winding grounded at diametrically opposite points and a wiper, means for connecting said source to a tap in said winding midway between said grounds, a reverse feedback amplifier adapted to reverse the polarity of the input voltage, means for connecting said source through said amplifier to a tap diametrically opposite said first tap, a second source of voltage with respect to ground proportional to the smoothed vector velocity of the air transverse to said axis, a second potentiometer having a cosinusoidally varying winding grounded at diametrically opposite points and a second wiper, means for connecting said second source to a tap in said second winding midway between said grounds, a second reverse feedback amplifier adapted to reverse the polarity of the input voltage, means for connecting said second source through said second amplifier to a tap in said sec ond winding diametrically opposite said first tap, a third potentiometer having a sinusoidally varying winding grounded at diametrically opposite points and a third wiper, two sources of equal voltage with respect to ground but of opposite p0- larity and proportional to the air speed oi said vehicle respectively connected to taps on the winding of said third potentiometer midway be tween said grounds, motor means for moving said first and second wipers through the angle between said axis and the plane containing said vehicle and an object, means for moving said third wiper through the angle between the axis of said vehicle and said plane, a, summing amplifier having an input and an output circuit, a plurality of resistors, and means for connecting said wipers v ly thro gh one of said resistors to the input circuit of said summing amplifier whereby the voltage of the output circuit of said amplifier is varied proportionally to a, component related to said axis of the ground speed of said vehicle. 
 6. In a computer for an aerial vehicle, a source of voltage proportional to the smoothed vector velocity of the air with respect to a target along an arbitrary axis, potentiometer means associated with said source for selecting a voltage proportional to the component of said velocity in the plane between said vehicle and said target, a second source of voltage proportional to the smoothed vector velocity of the air with respect to said target transverse to said axis, second potentiometer means associated with said second source for selecting a voltage proportional to the component of said latter velocity in said plane, a third source of voltage proportional to the vector velocity of said vehicle with respect to the air, third potentiometer means associated with said third source of voltage for selecting a voltage of opposite polarity to said other selected voltages proportional to the component of said last velocity in said plane, a reverse feedback amplifier, three resistors, and means for connecting each of said selected voltages individually through one of said resistors to the input of said amplifier, whereby the output voltage of said amplifier is proportional to the horizontal ground speed in said plane of said vehicle with respect to said target. 
 7. In a computer for an aerial vehicle, a source of voltage proportional to the smoothed vector velocity of the air with respect to a, target along an arbitrary axis, potentiometer means associated with said source for selecting a voltage proportional to the component of said velocity transverse to the plane between said vehicle and said target, a second source of voltage proportional to the smoothed vector velocity of the air with respect to said target transverse to said axis, second potentiometer means associated with said second source for selecting a voltage proportional I to the component of said latter velocity transverse to said plane, a, third source of voltage proportional to the vector velocity of said vehicle with respect to the air, third potentiometer means associated with said third source of voltage for selecting a voltage proportional to the component of said last velocity transverse to said plane, a reverse feedback amplifier, three resistors, and means for connecting each of said selected voltages individually through one of said resistors to the input of said amplifier, whereby the output voltage of said amplifier is proportional to the horizontal ground speed transverse to said plane of said vehicle with respect to said target. 
SIDNEY DARLINGTON. CHARLES H. TOWNES. DEAN E. WOOLDRIDGE. 
(References on following page) Number REFERENCES CITED 2397543 The following references are of record in the 2,382,994 file of this patent: 2,385,334 5 #101,779 UNITED STATES PATENTS 2,404,387 Number Name Date 2,412,585 
2,066,949 Ruiz Jan. 5, 1937 2,119,607 Sterba. June 7, 1938 2,207,962 Werrmann July 16, 1940 10 2,251,973 Beale et a1. Aug. 12, 1941 N mb r 2,292,159 Richardson Aug. 4, 1942 164,765 
 Name Date Eberharat et a1 Sept. 29, 1942 Holden Aug. 21, 1945 Davey Sept. 25, 1945 Swartzel June 11, 1946 Lovell et a1 July 23, 1946 Klemperer et a1 Dec. 1'7, 1946 FOREIGN PATENTS Country Date Great Britain June 23, 1921