Electric air position indicator 
US-2406836-A
Bell Telephone Labor Inc
1946-09-03
https://patents.google.com/patent/US2406836A/en
Sept. .3, 1946. w. H. T. HOLDEN ELECTRIC AIR POSITION INDICATOR 4 Sheets-Sheet 1 Filed March 24, 1944 l@ JW@ s b.\ 
ATTORNEY Sept 3 1946- w. H. 'r. HOLDEN ELECTRIC AIR POSITION INDICATOR 4 Sheets-Sheet 2 Filed March 24, 1944 /Nl/ENTOR W H 7.' HOLDEN BV www Arrows/Ey Selma 3, 1946. w. H. T. HQLDEN 2,406,836 
ELECTRIC AIR POSITION INDICATOR Filed Marh 24. 1944 4 Sheets-Sheet 3 WHT/HOLDEN BV ATTORNEY Sept. 3, 1946. w. H. T. HOLDEN ELECTRIC AIR POSITION INDICTOR Filed March 24, 1944. 4 Sheets-Sheet 4 /Nl/ENTOR I4. H. I HOLDEN @6. ma 
ATTORNEY Patented Sept. 3, 1946 UNITED STATES ATENT OFFICE ELECTRIC AIR POSITION INDICATOR Application March 24, 1944, Serial No. 527,998 I Claims. 
 This invention relates to an air position indicator for use on an aircraft for enabling the pilot or the navigator to determine at any instant the latitude and longitude of his position and the air miles which he has flown from any speciiied take-oit point. More particularly the invention is concerned with the provision of electrical equipment for controlling indicators which continuously indicate the aircraft position in degrees and minutes of latitude and longitude and the air miles which have been flown. 
 The utility of apparatus of this character is quite evident. On ships the problem of determining the ships position at any instant is not great due to the slow speed at which surface ships sail and due to the fact that such ships always carry a navigator as a member of the crew who has ample time to make celestial observations, to do the navigational plotting that is necessitated from the data secured from such observations and to keep the necessary records of course and speed to enable a dead reckoning position `to be always known. However, aircraft and particularly airplanes which have high cruising speeds present a more difficult problem for solving navigational data to determine positions. This is particularly true of airplanes of the high speed type which may not have space to accommodate a navigator as a part of the crew. Furthermore in aerial navigation under war conditions, evasive action involves such frequent changes of course and speed that a navigator cannot keep an accurate log from which the dead reckoning position may be obtained. The apparatus which is the subject of this invention may be described as an automatic dead reckoning device. 
 Apparatus has heretofore been proposed for producing indications of the position of an airplane and the air miles flown which may be observed by the pilot but such apparatus has been of a complicated mechanical construction, making its production slow and costly, and requiring extremely close limits of mechanical dimensions to produce an acceptable accuracy of results. 
 It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide apparatus electrically controlled in accordance with the air speed of an aircraft and with the true course of the flight to continuously indicate the latitude and longitude of the air position of the aircraft and the air miles which have been flown whereby substantially accurate indications are made possible. 
 It is a further object of the invention to provide air position indicating equipment which is sufiiciently compact and of light enough weight that it may be readily installed in small airplanes. 
 To attain these objects apparatus has been designed in two parts, an indicator unit and a control unit. Most modern airplanes are equipped with an air mileage unit and with either a remote control ,earth inductor compass or remote control magnetic compass unit. From these units information may be secured concerning the air speed and the compass course of the airplane flight for enabling a control unit to control the indicator unit. The indicator unit is provided with three indicators `which may be of the count ing wheel type, one of which is controlled to indicate the air miles flown, the second of which indicates the degrees and minutes of latitude of the instant position of the airplane, and the third of which indicates the degrees and minutes of longitude cf the instant position of the airplane. The indicator may also be provided with a pointer and compass rose for indicating the true compass course of the flight. Provision is made for enabling the latitude and longitude indicators to be reset to indicate the latitude and longitude of the positions of the airplane at some known point as, for example, at the take-oi of a flight and with means for enabling these indicators to be operated in one or the other direction dependent upon whether the flight is being conducted in, the north or south hemisphere or east or west oi a particular meridian. 
 As disclosed in one modification of the invention the motor-generator sets and gearing for driving the several indicators are enclosed in a casing which houses the indicators. Since this assemblage, while relatively compact, does not readily permit of its mounting in the usual instrument panel installed in front of the pilot, a simplified form of indicator unit the indicators of which may be operated by remote controls from motor-generator sets located in the control unit may be used and is disclosed in the modied form of the invention. This indicator unit is suciently compact so that it may be mounted in the instrument panel and occupy no greater area in such panel than do the other iiight instruments such as the altimeter or remote indicating compass. 
 The control unit comprises the amplifier' and relay apparatus necessary to control the motor and generator assemblies of the indicator unit, when installed therein or when installed in the control unit, in response to the operation of the afioaeec a air speed motor unit and the compass unit of the airplane. 
 For a clearer understanding ofthe invention and the mode of its operation reference may be had to the following detailed description therecf when read in connection with the accompanying drawings in which: 
 Fig. 1 shows schematically the assembly of the apparatus units involved in the present invention; 
 Fig. 2 is a circuit diagram showing schematically the assembly of the apparatus units; 
 Fig. 3 is a vector diagram explanatory of the theoretical aspects of the invention; 
 Fig. 4 showsW the apparatus and circuits of the indicator unit constituting` one modification of the invention; 
 Fig. 5 shows the apparatus and circuits of the control unit which may be used with either modidcation of the invention; and Y Fig. 6 shows the apparatus and circuits of an indicator unit constituting a modification of the invention and control equipment therefor which may be assembled as a part of the control unit disclosed in Fig. 5. 
 Referring rst to Fig. l the several apparatus units required to carry forward the invention are schematically illustrated. The air mileage unit which constitutes a part of the apparatus of an airplane is shown at l. This unit is equipped with a tachometer generator which is connected by the cable 2 through the junctionbox 3 and cable ll to a tachometer motor which forms part of the motor-generator set of the indicator 5 for driving the air rmiles indicator, or, alternatively, rfrom the junction box 3 through the cable 6 to the control unit 'i if this motor-generator set constitutes a part of the control unit as illustrated in the modified form of the invention disclosed in Fig. 6. If the airplane is equipped with a remote control earth inductor compass control unit or so-called flux gate compass unit, such unit is connected by the cable 9 attached to the cable Ie, through the junction box 3 to the unit 5 over cable t. If the airplane is equipped with a remote indicating compass of the so-called magnesyn control type such as is indicated schematically at il', this compass is associated with the auxiliary control unit I2 over cable I3 which latter unit is then connected by cable I4 attached to cable it, through junctionbox 3 to the control unit l and to the indicator unit 5. If an indicator unit of the type disclosed in Fig. 6 is used then the compass control unit 8 would be connected with a remote control indicating compass on the instrument panel of the airplane. Power for operating the electrical equipment of the air position indicator is obtained over cable I5 extending from the Z-volt .direct current source and the 40G-cycle 26S-volt alternating current supply source of the airplane. 
 The air speed motor unit I is driven by an air motor which is responsive to the difference of pressure between the pilot and the static tubes of the airplane and in turn drives a tachometer generator which, being driven at a speed commensurate with the air speed, generates a potential which varies linearly with the air speed and which potential is utilized to drive a tachometer motor forming a part of the motor-generator set associated with the air miles indicator AMC. 
 The indicator 5 if of the type disclosed in Fig. 4 comprises a housing containing three motor-generator sets each coupled by a suitable gear train to an indicator which maybe oi the multiple counting wheel type the wheels of which may be viewed through a sight opening in the face of the housing. One of these counters AMC indicates the air miles or total distance own relative to the air. A second one of the counters LC indicates the latitude and a third of the counters LOC4 indicates the longitude relative to the air (neglecting wind) oi the flight position of the airplane after these counters have been set at the latitude and longitude of some known point, for example the take-off point of the iiight. 
 The circuit diagram of Fig. 2 shows schematically the manner in which apparatus embodying the modiiication of the invention disclosed in Figs. 4 and 5 or apparatus embodying the modiiication of the invention disclosed in Figs. 5 and 6 is interconnected electrically. In this diagram the air mileage unit I is disclosed as mechanically or otherwise coupled to the master generator MG andeither mechanically or electrically coupled as desired with the air miles counter AMC. Y.if 
` the rotational velocity of the input to the master generator is assumed tovbe wo then this rotational velocity may be expressed in terms of air speed as KoVt. The master generator has an output potential En which at the angular speed wo may be expressed as Kiwa. is impressed upon the input of the resolving unit MR2 which is oriented by the compass servo CS through the true course angle GN whereupon output potentials El and Ee are derived, the potential E1 having a value equal t o Eq cos CN and potential E2 having a Value equal to lilo sin CN. 
 The potential E1 is applied to the input of the speed control device AMPI whose output controls the latitude motor LM to drive the latitude feedback generator FGI at an angular speed w1 corresponding' to the angular speed wo as modified by the resolving unit MR2. rlhe shaft of the motor LM may drive the latitude indicator LC either mechanically or electrically as desired. 'Ihe feedback generator FGI generates a potential Ei which is equalto Kiwi whichpotential is applied as a eedback potential upon the input of the speed control device AMPI. 
 The potential E2 is applied to the input of the speed control device AMP2 whose output controls the longitude motor LOM to drivethe longitude feedback generator FGE at an angular speed The rotor shaft ofy motor LOM may drive the longitude indicator LOC either mechanically or electrically as desired. The feedback generator FGE. generates a potential Ez equal to Kw2 which is impressed upon the input of the resolving unit MRI which is oriented from the input shaft of the latitude counter LC either mechanically or electrically as desired through the latitude angle A whereupon an output potential having a value E'z cos l is derived and impressed as a feedback potential upon the input ,circuit of the speed l control device AMP?. 
 For a more detailed disclosure of the invention reference will iirst be. made to Figs. 4 and-5 which disclose Vone embodiment thereof. 
 As previously stated the air mileage unit I, whose motor. speed is 24; revolutions per minute per knot of true air speed and whose'maximum speed corresponding .to t()v knots would be 10,800 revolutions per minute. is geared down by-a reduction gearing having a ratio of 6 to l to drive a tachometer generator at a speed'oi 1800 revolutions per minute whereby the tachometer motor TM, electrically associated with the air mileage unit I over the cable 2', is also driven at a speed of 1800 revolutions per minute. In the indicator This output potential the motor TM through the gearing 400 having', a speed-up ratio of 1 to 4 drives the master gen-y erator MG at four times the speed of the motor TM or, for example, at 7200 revolutions per minute when the motor TM is operating at a speed of 1800 revolutions per minute'. 
 The master generator MG is a two-phase, 400- cycle induction motor functioning as an induction generator. A potential Whose amplitude is proportional to the rotational speed and whose phase is substantially constant up to a speed of 6000 revolutions per minute appears across the control phase `40| of this generator. This potentia1 has the same frequency as the 400-cycie, 26-volt supply AC of alternating current which Vis connected to its xed phase winding 402. The 
generator may be considered as a transformer whose ratio is dependent on the rotational speed. The motor TM, through the gearing 400, the 
'reduction gear box 403 having a reduction ratio of 3600 to 1, and `through the further gearing 404 having a reduction ratio of 24 to 9 drives the air miles counter AMC. The input wheel of this counter,` graduated `to 9, moves continuously making one revolution for each ten nautical miles. The other wheels are advanced by decimal Geneva movements in the usual manner to register the tens, hundreds, thousands and ten thousands of miles. Since 7200 revolutions per minute ofthe shaft of generator MG corresponds to 450 knots or 7.5 nautical miles per minute, the input shaft should rotate at 0.75 revolution per minute and the total reduction gear ratio between the generator shaft and the counter should be 9600 to!` 1. This is accomplished by the gear box 403 and the gears 404. 
 The latitude counter LC is driven by a second motor-generator set comprising a. miniature direct current motor LM of the magneto type, the rotor cf which is directly coupled with the rotor of the feedback generator FGI. This feedback generator is a two-phase 40G-cycle induction motor functioning as a generator and has one of its phase windings 405 connected in series with the phase Winding 40| of the master generator MG and its other phase winding 400 connected overY conductors V40'! and 408 ywith the winding of potentiometer P3 associated with the `input side of the amplifier circuit AMPI of Fig. 
5. The feed back generator FGI is identical with the master generator MG and serves to hold the speed of motor LM, the armature vcircuit of which is connected over conductors 409 and 4I0 with the output side of amplifier circuit AMIPl, to a value such that the output of the feedback generator FGI is equal to the output of the master generator as modified by the magnetic resolver MR2. A flywheel 4II is mounted on the rotor shaft of motor LM Vbetween the rotor of the motor and the rotor of the generator FGI to delay speed changes. 
 The rotor shaft of motor LM is also connected through a exible coupling 4 I 2 to the input shaft of the reduction gear box M3, the iiexible coupling reducing the rotational shock to the reduction gear box. The output shaft of the gear box 4I3 is connected through bevel gears 4I4 having a unity ratio, with a shaft 4 I 5 upon which the pinion 4I0 is slidable. This pinion in the position disclosed meshes with gear 4II which is mounted on the driving shaft BIB of the latitude counter LC. When the master generator MG is rotating at aspeed of 7200 revolutions per minute or 450 knots ona true course north correspond. 
ing to 7.5 minutes of latitude per minute of time, 
the shaft '418 of` counter LC should make one revolution for each sixty minutes of latitude. Therefore the gearV reduction required is 7200 revolutions per minute to .125 revolution per minute or 57,600 to l. This is secured by the reduction gear box 4I3 which has a reduction ratio of 3600 to 1 followed by the gears 4I6 and 4I'I which introduce a further reduction ratio of 16 to l. The input wheel of counter LC, graduated 0 to 59 minutes, moves continuously making one revolution for each degree j latitude. The other wheels are advanced by decimal Geneva movements in the usual manner to register the units and tens of the degrees of latitude. 
 The shaft 4I8 of the counter is also connected t0 the input shaft of the reduction gear box M9 the output shaft 420 of which is connected to the rotor RI of the magnetic resolver MRI. The gear box 450 has a reduction gear ratio of 360 to 1 so that a complete revolution of the rotor RI would result should the countershaft 4I8 rotate 360 revolutions to cause the counter LC to indicate 360 degrees. The latitude counter LC, however, reads only from 00 degrees 00 minutes to 99 degrees 59 minutes and readings beyond 75 degrees 30 minutes north or 75 degrees 30 minutes south are not used. Therefore the limit switch LS is provided, which is operated by cam 42| mounted on shaft 420, to open the circuit of motor LM and to close the circuit of alarm lamp ALM in the event the rotor RI should be rotated more than degrees 30 minutes either side of the position in which the counter LC indicates 00 degrees 00 minutes. 
 When a night is being conducted in the northern hemisphere the driving gear 4I6 is meshed with the gear 4I? as disclosed and the counter LC will increase its reading as the flight proceeds northward and will decrease its reading if the flight proceeds southward towards the equator. When the equator is crossed a reading of 00 degrees 00 minutes would be followed by a reading of 99 degrees 59 minutes as the flight proceeds into the southern hemisphere. In order, therefore, that the counter may increase its reading through 00 degrees 01 minute, etc., means is provided whereby the navigator or pilot may reverse the rotation of the counter as the flight crosses the equator.- This means comprises a pair of connected gears 422 and 423 of the same pitch diameter as the driving gear 4I0, mounted on an idler shaft and so positioned that the gear 422 is normally in mesh with gear 4I'I and that the gear 423 may be meshed with gear 4I0. To reverse the direction of rotation of the countershaft 4I8 the driving gear 4I6 is moved along the driving shaft 4I5 by the control knob 42'4 out of mesh with gear 4I? and into mesh with the reversing gear 423. At the same time a shutter NS (see Fig. l) in the face of the indicator unit 5 changes from N to S. In place of the revers ing gears a switch could be employed for controlling the electrical reversal of the motor LM. 
 The control knob 424 has three positions, the right position being for northward flight, the left position being for southward iiight and the intermediate position being such that the driving gear 450 is entirely out of mesh with either the gear 4I? or the reversing gear 423. In this position the reset gear 425 may be meshed with gear 4II by the operation of the reset knob 426 to permit the setting of .the counter LC as at a dennite fix or landmark the latitude of which is known. 
 The longitude counter LOC is driven by a third motor-generator set comprising a miniature direct current motor LoM of the magneto type, the rotor of which is directly coupled with the r'otor of the feedback generator FGZ. generatoris a two-phase 40G-cycle induction inotor functioning as a generator and has one rof its phase windings 421 connected in series with the phase winding 43I of the master generator MG and its other phase winding 428 connected in series with the winding of rotor RI of the magnetic resolver MRI. The feedback generator FGZ is identical with the master generatorr MG and serves to hold the speed of motor LoM, the armature circuit of which is connected over oonductors 429 and 430 with the output side of amplier circuit AMPZ of Fig. 5, to a value 'such f that the output of the feedback generator is equal to the output of thev master generator as modified by the magnetic resolver MRI. A fiywheel 43I is mounted on the rotor shaft of motor LOM between the rotorrof the motor and the rotor of the generator FG2 to delay speed changes. 
 The rotor shaft of motor LUM is also connected through a flexible coupling 432 to the input shaft of the reduction gear bo'x 433, the flexible coupling reducing the rotational shock to the reduction gear box. The output shaft of the gear box is connected through bevel gears 434 having a unity ratio with a shaft 435 'ur-'on' which the pinion 433 is slid'able. This pinion in the position disclosed meshes with gear 43'! which is mounted on the driving shaft 43E of the longitude counter LQC. When the master generator MG is rotating at a speed of 1290 revolutions per minute or 450 knots on a true course corresponding to '7.5 minutes of longitude per minute of time, the shaft 433 of counter LoCshould revolve four times as fast as the shaft 4I8 of the latitude counter LC since the rate of change of longitude may be four times vas great as the rate or change of latitude. Therefore the gear reduction required is 1200 revolutions per minute to .599 revolution per minute or 14,400. This is secured by the reduction gear boX 433 which has a reduction ratio of 3600 to l followed by the gears ist and 431 which introduce a further remotion ratio of 4 to L vThe input wheel of colui-ter LOC., graduated (l to 59 minutes, moves continuously making one revolution for each degree of longitude. The other wheels are advanced by decimal Geneva movements in the usual manner to register the units, tens and hundreds of the degrees of longitude. 
 When a flight is being conducted in the eastern hemisphere the driving gear 43S is meshed with the gear 431 as disclosed and the counter LoC Will increase its reading as the ight proceeds eastward and will decrease its reading if the flight proceeds westwardly- This counter may read 000 degreesv minutes to 999 degrees 59 minutes but the maximum useful range is, of course, 060 degrees 00 minutes toA 180 degrees (l0 minutes east or west. When the reference meridian is crossed a reading 000 degrees 00 minutes would be followed by 999 degrees 59 minutes as the flight proceeds into the Western hemisphere. In order therefore that the counter may increase its reading through 00o degrees ol minute, etc., means is provided whereby the navigator or pilotV may reverse the rotation of the counter as the flight crosses the reference meridian, This rleans is similar to that associated with the latitude counter and comprises the reversing gears 442 and 443 and the knob 444. It isassumed that the. right positionof knob 444 is `dis-closed as that in which driving gear 436 is in mesh with gear 431 for driving the counter for a flight in the easternhemisphere that'the'mid-position of the knob is the position vin'which gear '436 is out of mesh with both gears '431 and 443 and in which position the reset knob '446 may be operated to mesh gear 445 with gear 431 to permit the settingof the counter LOC as at a definite iiX or landmark the longitude of which is known, and that the left position of :knob 444 is .that in which driving gear 436 is in mesh with reversing gear 443 for driving the counter in theV direction for a night in the western hemisphere. A shutter EW located .in the face of the indicator unit 5 (sce Fig. l.) changes from E to W when the knob 444 is moved to the left. In place of the reversing 'gears' a switch could be employed for controlling the electrical reversal ofthe motor LOM. 
 Also located in the indicator unit 5 is a synahrc-receiver SR having a Y-type stator the three windings of l.which are connected over conductors 441, 448 and 449 with the similar windings of the stator of a synchro-transmitter (not shown) but driven by the remote 'control earth inductor compass unit 8. The rotor R3 of the synchro-receiver is mounted on the shaft 439 which moves the compass needle of the compass C and which also moves the rotor R2 of the magnetic resolver MR2. The winding of the rotor R3 is conneoted over conductors 449 and 450 with the rotor winding of the synchro-transmitter driven by the unit 8 and with the Source AC of 400 cycles alternating current. 
 If the airplane is equpped'with a remote' coritrol magnetic compass f the sci-'called magnesyn type as disclosed at II in Fig. 1 driven from the auxiliary compass control unit I2 then the synchro-receiver SR would also be of the magne'syn type. 
 The horizontal stator winding 443 of the magnetic resolver MR2 is cor'inectedI in series with the winding of potentiometer P2 over conductors 45I and 452 and the vertical stator winding 44| is connected in series with the winding of potentiometer Pl over conductors 454 and 453. The Winding' of rotor R2 of this magnetic resolver is connected in series with the winding 451| of the master generator MG so that a potential Eo is applied across the winding of the' rotor which varies with the air speed of the flight and, since the rotor winding is oriented in accordance with the true compass bearing angle CN of the flight, a potential is derived from the horizontal winding 440 of this resolver which has a value En sin CN anda potential is derived from the vertical winding 44| which has a value Eo cos CN. 
 The magnetic resolver MRI previously-referred to, the rotor RI of which is driven 'from the shaft 4 I of the latitude counter LC, has its rotor winding energized by potential impressed thereon from the stator winding 428 of the 'feedback generator FGZ and has two windings of its Y- connected stator connected by conductors 454 and 455 with the primary winding' of transformcr TI, the secondary winding of which transformer is bridged across the winding of potentiometer P4. 
 Potentials impressed upon the windings of potentiometers PI and P3 are added and impressed upont'he primary winding of input transformer T2 of amplifier circuit AMPI over a circuit which mayl ire-traced from the lower terminal of the primary winding of transfonner T2, over the brush and the upper portion of the winding of potentiometer P3, over the brush and upper portion of the winding of potentiometer PI to the upper terminal of the primary winding of transformer TZ. Similarly the potentials impressed upon the windings of potentiometers P2 and P3 are added and impressed upon the primary winding of input transformer TIZ of amplier circuit AMP2 over a circuit which may be traced from the lower terminal of the primary winding of transformer TI2 over the brush and upper portion of the winding of potentiometer P4 and over the brush and upper portion of the winding of potentiometer P2 to the upper terminal ofthe primary winding of transformer TI2. The potentiometers PI to P4 may be of the screwdriver adjustable type to secure suitable adjustments of the feedback and signal potentials and to take up any variations in the ratio of the transformers T2 and TIZ to the generators FGI and FG2. The amplifiers AMPI and AMP2 may be of the type disclosed in the application of R. W. Ketchledge, Serial No. 473,083, filed January 21, 1943. 
 The potential impressed upon the primary winding of the'input transformer T2 of amplier circuit AMPi is amplified by the dual amplier tube VTI and under the control of the dual diode tubes VT2 and VT3 serving as full Wave rectiiiers the output from tube VTI is applied to the grids of the dual triode tube VT4 to operate one or the other of the relays ARI or ARE which control the application of direct current from the source B` to the rotor circuit of the direct current motor LM. The potential impressed upon the primary winding of input transformer TI 2 of the amplifier AMP2 is amplied by the dual ampliiier tube VTII and under the control of the dual `diode tubes VTIZ and VTI3 serving as full wave rectiers the output from tube VTI I is applied to the grids of the dual triode tube VTI@ to operate one or the other of the relays ARE I or ARAB which control the application of direct current from the source B to the rotor circuit of the direct current motor LOM. 
 Potential from the source AC of 26-volt 400- cycle is stepped up to 250 volts by the transformer T4, is rectified by the dual diode tube VT5 and the rectified current is ltered by the lter circuit F and applied as a Z50-volt direct current potential to the anode bus-bar 500. From this bus-bar anode potential is applied through the windings of relays ARI and AR2 to the anodcs of tube VT4, through the windings of relays ARI I and ARI 2 to the anodes of tube VTM, through resistance 50i and resistances '502 and 503 in series to the anodes of tube VTI and through resistance 5I I and resistances 5I2 and 5i3 in series to the anodes of tube VTII. Filament heating current is supplied from the direct current source B, over the 26-volt bus-bar 504 through resistance 505 and the filaments of tubes VTS, VTZ and VTI in series to the ground bus-bar 506, from bus-bar 504 through resistance 5I5 and the lilaments of tube VT, VTI 2 and VTII in series. 
to the ground bus-bar 505 and from the bus-bar 504 through the filaments of tubes VTM, VT4, VT6 and VT5 in series to the ground bus-bar 50B. Potential from the battery bus-bar 504 is also applied through the grid biasing resistances 501 and 5I'I in parallel with the secondary windings of input transformers T2 and TIZ to the input grids of tubes VTI and VTI I, respectively, from bus-bar 504 through resistances 508, 509, 5I8 and 5I|9 to the cathodes of tubes VTI and VTII and from bus-bar 504 through resistances 5I0 and 520 to the right grids of tubes VTI and VTI I. 
 Potential from the 26-volt, 40o-cycle source AC is also supplied to the primary winding of stepup transformer T3 which steps up the potential to 200 volts. The mid-point of the secondary winding of switching control transformer T3 is connected to the battery bus-bar 504, one end terminal is connected through resistance-s to the cathode of the left unit of the rectifier tube VTZ and to the anode of the right unit of rectifier tube VT3 and the other end terminal is connected through resistances to the anode of the right unit of rectiiier tube VT2 and to the cathode of the left unit of rectifier tube VTS. A potential of 200 volts is similarly applied through the switch-V ing control transformer TIS to the cathodes and anodes of tubes VTI2 and VTI 3. 
 Relays ARI, ARZ, ARM and ARIZ are preferably of the high speed, glass sealed, merctuy contact reed type disclosed in the application of C, E. Pollard, Serial No. 487,999, led May 22, 1943. 
 In case the output power from the air mileage unit I is not sufficient to drive the tachometer generator Which in turn drives the tachometer motor TM, output power from the unit I may be applied over conductor 450 through resistance 52! to the control grid of the dual rectiiier tube VTI:` which in response to the signal amplies such signal to operate the anode relay ARS which in turn applies power from the battery bus-bar 50d over conductor 451 to the unit I to drive the motor therein which in turn drives a tachometer generator to furnish the power for driving the tachometer motor TM. Anode potential is supplied to the tube VTS from the Z50-volt bus-bar through the winding of anode relay ARS, cathode potential is supplied from the battery busbar 504 and grid potential is supplied from the ground bus-bar 500 through resistance 522. 
 In order that the air position indicator may be made sufficiently compact to be mounted in an instrument mounting space on the usual instrument panel of an airplane, an indicator of the type disclosed at 5 in Fig. 6 is provided. This indicator includes two two-directional stepping devices of the type STP shown schematically to the right of the indicator and a single directional stepping device. One of the two-directional stepping devices is capable of advancing the pointer of the latitude minutes indicator LCm in either direction of rotation and to rotate the input shaft of the latitude degrees counter LCd one revolution for each degree of latitude. The other wheel of this counter is advanced by a decimal Geneva movement in the usual manner. The other of the two-directional stepping devices is capable of advancing the pointer of the longitude indicator LoCM in either direction of rotation and to rotate the input shaft of the longitude degrees counter LoCd one revolution for each degree of longitude. The other Wheels of this counter are advanced yby decimal Geneva movements in the usual manner. The single directional stepping device drives the input shaft of the airmiles counter AMC the input wheel of which makes one revolution for each ten nautical miles and the other wheels of which are advanced by decimal Geneva movements in the usual manner. 
The indicator is provided with a reset knob E20 'for resetting the latitude counter and a reset knob 646 for resetting the longitude counter to indicate the latitude and longitude of a point the latitude and longitude of which are known. A 
aeoasae switch-button t2# is also provided for reversing the connection of the control conductors E22 and 623 to the windings of the stepping device which controls the latitude minutes indicator LCm and the latitude degrees counter LCd so that they may be operated in the reverse direction when a flight is being conducted `in the southern. hemisphere and a similar button 646 is provided for reversing the connection of the control conductors &2 and 5&3 to the windings of the stepping device which controls the longitude minutes indicator LoCm and the longitude degrees counter LoCd. 
 Three motor-generator sets for controlling the air position indicator are provided, these sets corresponding in general to the similar sets disclosed in Fig. Ll. They, however, are installed in an rassembl-f separated from the indicator. The motor-generator assembly for operating the air miles counter AMC of the indicator comprises a motor TM which, through gearing EN! having a speed-up ratio of l to 4, drives the master generator MG at four times the speed of the motor TM or, for example, at 729i) revo-- lutions per minute when the motor TM is operating at a speed of 1800 revolutions per minute. The master generator MG is a two-phase, 400- cycle induction motor functioning as an induction generator. A potential whose amplitude is proportional to the rotational speed appears across the control phase 60| of this generator and has the same frequency as the Li90-cycle, ZfS-volt supply AC of alternating current which is connected to its iixed phase winding 6&2. The generator may be considered as a transformer, whose ratio is dependent on the rotational speed. The motor TM' through the gearing 5E!! and the reduction gear box 6&3 having a reduction gear ratio of i440 to i, rotates the cam '5&4 which once per revolution establishes a circuit over conductor 52! and through the winding of the stepping magnet (not shown) which advances the input shaft of the air miles counter AMC. 
 The motor-generator set for controlling the stepping device associated with the latitude minutes indicator I Cm and latitude degrees counter L-Cd comprises a split field series-connected direct current motor LM' coupled directly with the rotor of the feedback generator FG! This feedback generator is a two-phase, 40G-cycle induction motor functioning as a generator and has one of its phase windings 535 connected to the source AC of 40G-cycle current and its other phase winding 69d connected over conductors 401 and 08 with the winding of the potentiometer P3 associated with the input side of the amplifier .unit AMP! of Fig. 5. One brush of the motor LM is connected over battery bus-bar 504 to the positive terminal of battery B and the other brush of the motor is connected through the two field windings (5i i and 6 i2, respectively, and over conductors its and Iii with the armatures of relays AR! and ARZ located in the output side of the amplifier circuit AMPI of Fig. 5. In this connection it is to be noted that when the amplifier circuits of Fig. 5 are used with the modified form of apparatus disclosed in Fig. 6, the front contacts of relays ARI, ARE, ARI l and ARIZ are connected to ground and the back contacts are left unconnected. 
 The rotor shaft of motor LM is also connected to the input shaft of the reduction gear box SIS on the output shaft of which cam 6M is mounted. The gear box @i3 has a reduction ratio of 1440 to 1. The cam 6M is arranged to engage spring` 'l5-I5 with the upper contact GHS associated therewithponce during each revolution of the output shaft of the gear box 613 when the output shaft is rotated by the motor LlVI' in one direction, for examplefwhen a flight is being conducted northerly in the northern `hemisphere and to engage the spring Gi with the lower contact E ll associated therewith once during each revolution of the output shaft of the gear box 653 when the output shaft is rotated'by the motor LM in the opposite direction, for example, when a flight is being conducted southerly in the northern hemisphere. The engagement of spring 5 i5' with contact SI5 completes a circuit over conductor 622 for one stepping magnet of the stepping device (not shown) which controls the latitude minutes indicator LCm and the latitude degrees counter LCd, and the engagement ofV spring 665 with contact @il completes a circuit over conductor 523 for the other stepping magnet of such stepping device. 
 The motor-generator set for controlling the stepping device associated with the longitude minutes indicator LoCm and the longitude degrees counter LoCd comprises a split eld seriesconnected direct current motor' LOM coupled directly with the rotor of the feedback generator FGQ. This feedback generator is a two-phase, 40G-cycle induction motor functioning as a generator and has one of its phase windings 621 connected to the source AC of 40G-cycle current and its other phase winding 628 connected across the Winding of rotor RI of the magnetic resolver MRM. One brush of motor LOM is connected over battery bus-bar 564 to the positive terminal of battery B` and the other brush of the motor is connected through the two field windings 63! and 632, respectively and over conductors 29 and 430 with the armatures of relays ARH and ARIZ located in the output side of the amplifier circuit AMPZ of Fig. 5. The rotor shaft of motor LOM is also connected to the input shaft of the reduction gear box 633 which has a reduction gear ration of 360 to 1 and on whose output shaft thecam 634 is mounted. Cam 634 is arranged to engage the spring 635 with the upper contact 636 associated therewith once during each revolution of the output shaft of the gear box 533 when the output shaft is rotated by the motor LOM in one direction, for example, when a night is being conducted easterly of a reference meridian and to engage the spring 635 with the lower contact 531 associated therewith once during each revolution of the output shaft of gear box 633 when the output shaft is rotated by the motor LOM in the opposite direction, for example when a flight is being conducted westerly in the eastern hemisphere. The engagement of spring 635 with contact B35 completes a circuit over conductor 642 for one stepping magnet of the stepping device (not shown) which controls the longitude minutes indicator LoCm and the longitude degrees counter LoCd and the engagement of spring 635 with contact B31 completes a circuit over conductor E43 for the other stepping magnet of such stepping device. Y 
The master generator MG' and the two feedback generators FGI' and FGZ are enclosed in a common housing 650 which closely embraces them whereby they are all similariy subjected to the same magnetic influences. 
 Since a synchro-receiver such as is shown at SR in Fig. 4 may not have sufcient torque to operate a magnetic resolver, vsuch as MR2 also shown in 4, a compass servo device indicated by the box CS in Fig. 6, may be provided which may in the well-known manner be controlled by a synchro-transformer coupled with a synchro-generator driven by either a magnetic or earth inductor type compass control. The compass servo in turn `drives the synchrotransmitter which is coupled with the synchroreceiver associated with the course indicator CI. rIhis course indicator is mounted on the instrument panel of the airplane. The compass servo also rotates the rotor R2 of the magnetic resolver MR2. 
 The horizontal stator winding 64B of the magnetic resolver IWRZ is connected in series with the winding of potentiometer P2 in Fig. 6 over conductors 45| and 452 and the vertical stator winding'GiH is connected in series with the winding of potentiometer PI over conductors 45| and 453. The winding of the rotor R2 of this magnetic resolver is connected in series with the winding 60| of the master generator MG' so that a potential E is applied across the Winding of the rotor which varies with the air speed of the night and since the rotor winding is oriented. 
by the compass servo CS in accordance with the true compass bearing angle CN of the night, a potential is derived from the horizontal winding B455 of this resolver which has a value of E0 sin CN and a potential is derived from the vertical winding 64| which has a value Eo cos CN. 
 The magnetic resolver MRI', previously referred to, has a rotor RI which is rotated by the two-directional stepper STP under the control of contacts operated by a cam (not shown) on the input shaft of the latitude degrees counter LCd of the air position indicator The winding of this rotor is energized by potential impressed thereon from the stator winding 523 or". the feedback generator FGZ. Two windings of .its Y-connected stator are connected across the input of the amplifier AMP?, which in the wellknown manner serves to amplify the output potential of the magnetic resolver MRl and to apply such amplified potential across the primary winding of transformer Tl of Fig. 5, the secondary winding of which transformer is bridged across the winding of potentiometer P4. 
 The output potential from the stator winding SEI of the master generator MG is also impressed across the input side of amplifier AMPA which in the well-known manner serves to amplify this potential and to apply such amplified potential across the primary windings of transformers T3 and T|3 of Fig. 5. 
 The apparatus employed in embodying the invention having now been described, the manner in which the apparatus functions and particularly the apparatus disclosed in Figs. 4 and 5 will nrst be described. It wil be assumed that the airplane in which the air position indicator isA installed starts a flight from a position of 00 degrees 00 minutes latitude and 095 degrees 30 minutes longitude in the eastern hemisphere and that the flight is to proceed in the easter-n and northern hemispheres. The pilot knows the latitude and longitude of the position of take-off and therefore sets the latitude and longitude counters LC and LOC by the operation of the reset knobs 426 and 448 in the manner previously described so that they indicate this position as disclosed in Fig. 4. He also sets the knobs 424 and 444 so that the counters will be operated in the proper direction for the contemplated night, the position in which the knobs are set appearing as N and E on the shutters as viewed through the 14 openings in the face of the indicator unit 5. It will also be assumed that previous to the contemplated night the airplane has been flown 15,865 nautical air miles as indicated by the air miles counter AMC. 
 It will be assumed that a night is made in the direction indicated by the line FA in Fig. 3 with a true compass course of CN degrees and at such a true air speed that the distance traversed at the time an observation is to be made, may be indicated by the vector FA. The latitude distance component FB of the vector FA is therefore FA cos CN and the distance BA or p along the latitude parallel through the point A is therefore FA sin CN. The air speed is measured by the air mileage unit which operates the tachometer motor TM to drive the master generator MG at an angular velocity wo commensurate with the air speed or wo=KuV where the true airspeed is expressed as Vt. As the night progresses from the point of take-olf F along the vector direction FA, the air miles counter AMC is driven through the reduction gear box 403 and the reduction gears 464 to add the nautical air miles which the airplane nies to the record on the counter at the point of takeoi. The pilot noting the reading of the counter at any time and by subtracting therefrom the initial reading may ascertain the number of air miles flown. Y 
 If desired the counter AMC could be provided with a means for disconnecting the counter from its connection with the reduction gear box 493 and with means for resetting the counter to zero, similar to the means associated with the latitude counter LC, so that the air miles flown on any night could be ascertained directly from the counter without the necessity of making a calculation. 
 Ihe generator MG in operating generates a potential in the circuit extending through the vertical stator winding 40|, the vertical stator windings of feedback generators FGI and FGZ and the winding of rotor R2 of the magnetic resolver MR2 which is a measure of the air speed. Since the rotor R2 of the magnetic resolver is angularly positioned by the synchroreceiver SR in response to the true compass bearing of the night as determined by the flux gate compass unit 8 or the auxiliary compass control unit I2, the rotor winding will assume a position with respect to the stator windings of the magnetic resolver commensurate with the true course angle CN (no compensation being made for the eifect of wind). Since the potential impressed upon the rotor winding is in accordance with the air speed Vt of the night in the vector direction FA, which may be expressed KlwozEo, the potential derived from the stator winding 44|, which may be identified as E1, may be expressed as E1=E0 cos CN and the potential derived from the stator winding 440, which may be identified as Ez, may be expressed as E2=Eo sin CN. If now the vector FA of Fig. 3 be considered the distance vector of the flight it may be expressed as having a potential Eat. Then the distance vector FB of the night position A will be FB=L=E1t=E0t cos CN or L=Eot cos CN and the vector BA or p of the night position A will be p=E2t=Eot sin CN. 
 The potential from the stator Winding 44D, having the value E1 or En cos CN, is impressed across the winding of potentiometer PI and a potential derived therefrom is impressed through the transformer T2 upon the input circuit of amplifier tube VTI, is amplined by such tube and is impressed through condenser 521 and thence ci in otor LM. 
through resistances 528 and 5729 in series to the upper grid of tube VT4 and in a parallel path through resistances 530 and 524 to the lower grid of tube VT4. The output of tube VTI is shunted by two bridge circuits. The dual diode tube VT2 together with the two halves of the secondary winding of transformer '1T- 3 form one bridge and the dual diode tube VTS and the two halves of the secondary winding of transformer vT3 .form the other bridge. The imnedances of vthese bridges are controlled by the 40G-.cycle current of a reference phase obtained through thewinding of transformer T3 from the source AC. 
 The impedance of the rst bridge is connected between the junction of resistances 52,8 and 52e and the mid-point of the secondary Winding of transformer T3 which is connected through the iilanient battery B to ground. The impedance of the second bridge is connected between the junction of resistances 530 and 524 and the midfpoint of the secondary winding of transformer `T3 and the potential drops' due to the incoming signal current in these impedances are applied to the unser and lower gridsrespectively of tube VT4. 
 Due to the noline of the diodes VTZ and VTS of. the. bridges, the bridges are conducting on alternate half cycles Of the reference frequency. During the non-conducting half cycles the signal potential drop in either bridge is very small compared with the value during the conducting half cycles, When the rst bridge is conducting the signal on the upper grid of tube VT4 will be either positive or negative depending on whether the signal is in phase or phase opposition to the reference frequency. VIn other words the grid receives either the positive or the negative pulses of the signal depending on the phase of the signal with respect to the reference frequency. Similarly, when the second bridge is conducting, that is,2 during, the alternate half cycles of the reference frequency, the lower grid of tube VT4 receives either the negative or the positive signal pulses according to the phase of the signal. 
 `If it be assumed that the incoming signal and the reference frequency are so phased that the loWCl unit of tube VT4 becomes conducting relay AR? operates in a circuit from battery on the busbar .599 through the winding of relay ARZ, over the anode-cathode path through the lower unit of tube VT4, to the positive side of the lament battery and thence to the ground bus-bar 506. ltelaj.7 upon operating establishes a circuit for the motor LM which may be traced from battery B through resistance 5245, over the front contact of relay ARZ, `Cimductor m9, through the rotor circuit of motor LM, over the normal contacts of limit switch LFS, conductor 4Ill, and over the back contact of relay ARI to the ground terminal of battery B. Motor LM is thus operated to drive Y the feed back generator FGI. 
' The motor LM will quickly pick up speed until the generator FG! is running at such a speed that the potential output from its stator winding 40B yliyirlffror applied across the winding of potentiometer P3 balances the signal potential E1 or En cos CN applied from the vertical stator winding ft'lI of the magnetic resolver MR2 across the winding of potentiometer P i, at which time the amplifier AMP-I will receive no vsignal potential and relay AR will cease operating to open the circuit The motor will then tend to slow clown whereupon the generator FGI Will apply a feedback potential across the winding of potenv whereupon the ampl-iier AllEPIv/ill again function to operate relay ARE to again establish the circuit of the motor Ll l. The motor LM will again bring generator FGQ up to a speed atwhich the feedback potential applied across the wind ing of potentiometer P3 again balances the signal potential Eo cos CN. In this manner the motor attains a substantially constant speed at which the :feedback generator FGI has an output potential, herein designated Er, which equalsthe pote tial Eo cos CN. Since the motor LM drives the tude counter LC as previously described, the counter will be advanced at such a speed w1 that after the time t required `for the airplane to ily from the point F to the point A or a latitude distance Erb or Eef; cos Cn, it will indicate in degrees and minutes the latitude distance L of the position A of the airplane. 
 It is a well-known rule of geography that the change in longitude equivalent to a given departurev varies in accordance with the secant of the average latitude. The basis for this'ass'ertion will be apparent from the following discussion considered in connection with the diagram of Fig. 3. It will be assumed that the longitude of point A with respect to point F is to be determined. BA 
.and FEare similar arcs of two circles and are proportional to the radii of the circles. 
 Therefore, if BA be designated p and FE be `designated llc or the longitude of the point A, then Now the latitude of the point A is the angle BOF which is equal to the angle AOE, but angle vA0E is equal to the angle OAC of the right angle p cos A is the latitude angle so it follows that Lo or Lo=p sec L In the circuits under discussion the value of p in terms of potential is determined by the potential derived frorn the horizontal stator winding of the magnetic resolver MR2 and has a value asn sumed to be E2 or Eo sin CN and therefore the potential value of p may be expressed Eo sin CN. The 
potential value of the latitude L has already been determined as Er or Eo cos CN where E1 is the output potential of the feedback generator FGI when such generator is operating at a speed w1 such as to satisfy the latitude vector L. As a consequence the rotor RI has been positioned through the latitude angle A. Therefore in terms of potential and considering the output potential of the feedback generator FG2 to be Ez when such generator is operating at aspeed such as to satisfy the longitude Vector Lo, Equation 3 may be Written in terms of potential as E() Sin CN impressed through the transformer TI2 upon the input side of amplifier tube VTI I, is amplified by suchtube and is impressed through condenser 531 and thence through resistances 538 and 539 in series upon the upper grid of tube VTM and in a parallel path through resistances 540 and 534 upon the lower grid of tube VTM. It will be assumed that the incoming signal potential for a flight toward the east is in phase with the potential impressed upon the left portion of the secondary winding of transformer TIS but out of phase with the potential impressed upon the right portion of the secondary winding of such transformer. 
 The output of tube VTII is shunted by' two bridge circuits, the dual diode tube VTI 2 together with the two halves of thesecondary winding of transformer T53 form one bridge and the dual diode tube VTI3 and the two halves of the secondary winding of transformer TI3 form the other bridge. The impedances of these bridges are controlled by the 40G-cycle current of a reference phase obtained through the windings of transformer TI 3 from the source AC'. 
 The impedance of the first bridge is connected between the junction of resistances 538 and '539 and the mid-point of the secondary winding of transformer TI3 which is connected through the filament battery B to ground. The impedance of the second bridge is connected between the junction of resistances 540 and 534 and the mid-point of the secondary winding of transformer TI3 and the potential drops due to the incoming signal currents in these impedances are applied to the upper and lower grids, respectively, of tube VTM. 
 Due to the poling of the diodes VTIZ and VTI3 of the bridges, the bridges are conducting on alternate half cycles of the reference frequency. During the non-conducting half cycles the signal potential drop in either bridge is very small compared with the value during the conducting half cycles. When the first bridge is conducting the `signal on the upper grid of tube VTM will be either positive or negative depending on whether the signal is in phase or in phase opposition to the reference frequency. In other words the grid receives either the positive or the negative pulses of the signal depending on the phase of the signal with respect to the reference frequency. Similarly, when the second bridge is conducting, that is, during the alternate half cycles of the reference frequency, the lower grid of tube VTM receives either the negative or the positive signal impulses according to the phase of the signal. 
 If it be assumed that the incoming signal and the reference frequency are so phased that the lower unit of tube VTM becomes conducting, relay ARIZ operates in a circuit from battery over the bus-bar 50B, through the winding of relay ARI2, over the anode-cathode path through the lower unit of tube VTM, to the positive side of the filament battery and thence to the ground bus-bar 505. 1Relay ARIZ upon operating establishes a circuit for the motor LoM which may be traced from battery B through resistance 536 over the front contact of relay ARI2, conductor 43B, through the rotor circuit of motor LOM, over conductor 429 and the back contact of relay ARII to the ground terminal of battery B. Motor LOM is thus operated to drive the feedback generator FGZ- The motor LoM quickly picks up speed whereupon Vthe generator FG2 develops an output potential Ez in its stator winding 428 proportional to the air speed potential Eb and applies such potential E2 across the rotor winding of the magnetic resolver MRI. It will be recalled that the rotor R1 of this magnetic resolver is rotated in response to the operation of the latitude motor LM. The angle through which the rotor RI is turned is then equal to the angle subtended by the arc of latitude as appears by reference to Fig. 3 in which the angle of latitude is designated as li; Consequently, a potential is derived from the stator windings of the magnetic resolver MRI which has a value E2 cos A. This potential is then impressed from the stator windings of magnetic resolver MRI, over conductors 454- and 455 upon the primary winding of transformer TI the secondary winding of which transformer is connected in series with the winding of potentiometer P4. Thus a potential equal to Ez cos A is impressed upon the winding of potentiometer P4 which is opposite in phase to the potential equal to Eo sin CN impressed upon the winding of potentiometer P2. These potentials tend to balance each other and when the feedback generator FG2 reaches a speed such that its output potential Ez is of such a value that Es cos `=Eo sin CN then the amplifier circuit AMPZ receives no input potential and relay ARI2 releases to open the circuit of motor LoM. 
 Motor LOM will then tend to slow down whereupon the generator FGZ will apply a feedback potential across the winding of potentiometer P4 lower than the signal potential Et sin CN Whereupon the amplifier AMPZ will again function to operate relay ARI2 to again establish the circuit of motor LoM. The motor LOM will again bring the generator FG?. up to a speed at which the feedback potential applied across the winding of potentiometer P4 again balances the signal potential Eo sin CN. In this manner the motor attains a substantially constant speed at which the feedback potential 122 cos A is generated. 
 Since the motor LoM also drives the longitude counter LoC as previously described, the counter will be advanced at such a speed that after the time t required for the airplane to fly from the point F to the point A or a longitude distance or the longitude distance Lo, it will indicate in degrees and minutes the longitude of the position A of the airplane. 
 The modied form of air position indicator disclosed in Figs. 5 and 6 functions in substantially the same manner as the indicator just described. The chief difference between the two indicators is that the air miles, latitude and longitude counters of the air position indicator disclosed in Fig. 6 are remotely controlled from the motorgenerator sets by stepping impulses transmitted to the indicator whereby it becomes possible to locate the indicator on the instrument panel and to locate the motor-generator sets in any convenient place in the airplane. While in the form of the invention disclosed in Fig. 6 split field seriesconnected direct current generators have been indicated it will be evident that magneto type generators such as are disclosed in Fig. 4 could be` used. 
 It is also to be noted that the horizontal stator windings 685 and 621 of the feedback generators FGI' and FGZ are energized from the 400cycle source AC rather than from the potential derived from the stator windings of the master generator as disclosed in Fig. 4. In this modification, however, a potential generated by the master generator MG', which varies in accordance with the air speed is made effective to determine that the feedback generators FGI? and FGZ shall generate the same potential as the master generator when they run at the same speed as the master generator by the applicationof the output potential from the master generator, through the amplifier AMP., to the speed control amplifier circuits AlVlIPi and AMP2 through the windings of the switching control transformers T3 and TIS. 
What is claimed is: 
 l. In an air position indicator for an aircraft, an indicator for indicating the instant number of air miles ijoyvn, an indicator for indicating the instant latitude position of said aircraft, anindicator for indicating the instant longitude posi- Y tion of said aircraft, means" for operating said first` indicator in accordance with the air speed of the aircraft, means for generating a potential commensurate with the air speed of said aircraft, means controlled in accordance with the true compass course of the flight for deriving values of said potential which vary in accordance with the sine and cosine lof, the course angle, means controlled by said cosine potential for operating said latitude indicator, means controlled by said latter means for generating a potential which varies in accordance with the cosine of the latitude angle, and means controlled jointly by -said latter potential and by said sine potentialA for operating said longitude indicator. 
 2. In an air position indicator for an aircraft, an'indicator for indicating the instant number of air miles flown, an indicator for indicating the instant latitude position of said aircraft, an indicator for indicating th'e instant longitude position of said aircraft, means for operating said first indicator in accordance with the air speed of said aircraft, means for generating a potential commensurate with the air speed of said aircraft, means controlled in accordance With the true compass course of the flight for resolving said potential into potentials which vary with the Sine. and cosine of the true compass angle, a motor for driving said latitude indicator, a feedback generator driven thereby, a speed control device responsive to the output potential of said generator and to the cosine component of said air speed potential for causing said motor to drive said latitude indicator to continuously indicate the latitude position ofl said aircraft, a motor for driving said longitude indicator, a feedback generator driven by said latter motor, means operable by said first motor for deriving a potential from the output potential of said second generator which varies in accordance with the cosine of the angle of latitude, and a speed control device responsive to said derived potential and to the sine component of said air speed potential for causing said latter motor to drive said longitude indicator to continuously indicate the longitude position of said aircraft. 
 3. In an air position indicator for an aircraft, an indicator for indicating the instant number of air miles ovn, an indicator for indicating the instant latitude position of said aircraft, an indicator for indicating the instant longitude position of said aircraft, means for operating said first indicator in accordance with the air speed of said aircraft, means for generating a potential commensurate with the air speed of said aircraft, means operative in accordance with the true flight course of the iiight for deriving values of said potential which varf,r in accordance with' the sine and cosine of the course angle, means controlled by said cosine potential for operating said latitude indicator, a magnetic resolver having a rotatable rotor Winding rotatable by said latter means for deriving a potential which varies in accordance with the cosine of the latitude angle, and means controll'edjointly by said latter potential and by said sine potential for operating said longitude indicator. 
 4. In an air position indicator for an aircraft, an indicator for indicating the instant number of air miles fiown, and indicator for indicating the instant longitude position of said aircraft, an indicator for indicating the instant longitude posi-v tion of said aircraft," means for operating said first` indicatorfin accordance with the air speed of said aircraft, means for generating a potential commensurate witlrthe air speed of said aircraft, means controlled in accordance with the true compass course of th'e flight for'resolving said potential into potentials which vary with the sine and cosine of the true course angle, a motor for driving said latitude indicator, a feedback generator driven thereby, a speed control device responsive to the output potential of said generator and to the cosine component of said air speed potentialfor causing said motor to drive said latitude indicator to continuously indicate the latitude position of said aircraft, a motor for Vdriving said longitude indicator, a feedback generator driven by said latter motor, a magnetic resolver having a rotor Winding energizable by the output potential from said latter generator and rotatable by said first motor for deriving a potential from the output potential of said latter generator Which varies in accordance with the cosine of the latitude angle, and a second speed control device responsive to said latter potential and to the sine component of said air speed potential for causing said latter motor to drive said longitude indicator to continuously indicate the longitude positionof said aircraft. 
 5. In an air position indicator'for an aircraft, an indicator kfor indicating the instant number of air miles flown, an indicator for indicating the instant latitude position of said aircraft, an indicator for indicating the instant longitude position of said aircraft, means'for operating said first indicator in accordance with the air speed of said aircraft, means for generating a potential commensurateV with the air Vspeed of said aircraft, means controlled in accordance with the true compass course of the flight for resolving said potential into potentials which vary with the sine and cosine of the true course angle, a motor for driving said latitude indicator, a feedback generator driven thereby, a thermionic speed control circuit responsive to the feedback potential of said generator and to the cosine component of said air speed potential for causing said motor to drive said latitude indicator to continuously indicate the latitude position of said aircraft, a motor for driving; said longitude indicator, a feedback generator driven by said latter motor, means operative by said iirst motor for deriving a potential from the output potential of said second generator which varies in accordance with the angle of latitude, anda second thermionic speed control circuit responsive to said derived potential and to the sine component of said air speed potential for causing said latter motor to drive said longitude indicator to Vcontinuously indicate the longitude position of said aircraft. WILLIAM H. T. HOLDEN.