Radio navigation system 
US-2472129-A
Sperry Corp
1949-06-07
https://patents.google.com/patent/US2472129A/en
June 7, 1949. E. c. STREETER, JR 2,472,129 
RADIO NAVIGATION SYSTEM Filed Aug. 4, 1943 9=Sheets-Shee' b 1 A INVENTOR EDWAR c. STREETER .n'z. 
ATTOR EY June 7, 1949. E. c. STREETER, JR 2,472,129 
RADIO NAVIGATION SYSTEM Filed Aug. 4, 1943 9 Sheets-Sheet 2 FIG. 5 
FIG. 8 
. INVENTOR EDWARD C. STREETER JR. 
FIG. 6 BY RNEY June 7', 1949. E. c. sTR E JR 2,472,129 
'RADIO NAVIGATION SYSTEM Filed Aug. 4, 1943 9 Sheets-Sheet DISTANCE DIFFERENCES 42 k k COMPUTER no.9 46 
ANGLE (b COMPUTER 5| 54 ci 64 66 5a 59 5e 55 2 DISTANCE r 63 LATITUDE L 8 LONGITUDE A, 
COMPUTER I LA 62 Fl 0 L 69 0 mm L L p 68 .78 75 67, 73 72 79 L 8| DISPLACEMENT d DISTANCE s A T COMPUTER 76 T 300 f 94 270 8g 88 e4 5 d 5 Y 93 9s 97 a COURSE H GROUND N CONTROL I04 SPEED 99 87 COMPUTER 'r as as d HT ls, A 9| L/ v lOl 1 CONTROLLED SPEED DEVICE CONTROL INVENTOR EDWARD C. STREETER JR. 
WWW 
ATTORNEY June 7, 1949. E. c. STREETER, JR 2,472,129 
RADIO NAVIGATION SYSTEM 'Filed Aug. 4, 1943 Q'Sheets-Sheet 4 '5" [I07 0" /l08 L/IOQ REcEIvER REcEIvER REcEIvER AND ND AND DETEcToR DETEcToR I DETEcToR Y I III |l2 ll5 f ||3 H6 ||4 l BAND PAss BAND PAss BAND PAss BAND PAss BAND PAss BAND PAss FILTER FILTER FILTER FILTER FILTER FILTER 7E I27 I i L i ll8 coARsE FINE v FINE coARsE fl= PHASE PHAsE PHAsE PHASE H1 I I sI-IIFTER sI-IIFTER sI-IIFT R sHIFTER T 9 f l29 s4 224 f I3I i lzl T AMP. AMP. AMP AMP. AMB AMP l22v PHASE PI-IAsE /|33 PHAsE PHASE METER METER METER METER AMPLIFIER AMPLIFIER AMPLIFIER AMPLIFIER LIMITER LIMITER LIMIT R LIMITER am SW ./l46 AMPLIFIER AMPLIFIER L BALANcED BALANCED f I47 MoDuLAToR"'@ MoDuLAToR I39 p sg PHASE /|48 sENsITIvE sENsITIvE AMPLIFIER AMPLIFIER Y i MoToR MoToR INVENTOR I EDWARD C. STREETER JR. 
I WW 
ATTORNEY June 7, 1949. E. c. STREETER, JR 2, 
RADIO NAVIGATION SYSTEM Filed Aug. 4, 1943 9 Sheets-Sheet 5 kB 53 FIG. H 
 L Lb- 52 43 r v 48 2:5 
 I57 1' i l I97 I92 I96 167 H AMP I66 ZOI AMP 
I safi fifvz AMPLIFIER J N AMP. l234 i INVENTOR EDWARD C. STREETER JR. 
E. C. STREETER, JR 
RADIO NAVIGATION SYSTEM June 7, 1949. 2,472,129 
Filed Augl 4, 1943- 9 Sheets-Sheet6 FIG. I2 
DIFFERENCE AMPLIFIER PHASE SENSITIVE AMPLIFIER SUM SUM AMPLIFIER AMPLIFIER PHASE SENSITIVE AMPLIFER PHASE SENSITIVE AMPLIFIER MOTOR INVENTOR EDWARD C. STREETER JR June 7, 1949. 
Filed Aug. 4, 1943 E. C. STREETER, JR 
RADIO NAVIGAT ION SYSTEM FiG.. l3 
9 Sheets-Sheet '7 PHASE DETECTOR PHASE DETECTOR 94 J I s )NVENTOR EDWARD C. STR ETER JR. 
ATTORNEY E. C. STREETER, JR 
RADIO NAVIGATION SYSTEM Filed Aug. 4, 194; 
9 Sheets-Sheet 8 FIG. I4 
 Y W PHASE SENSITIVE AMF! 389 AMP. AMPLIFIER /392 393 t 399 PHASE LIMITER DETECTOR Y i M DIFFEREN ITOR 4O| SUM /372 AND AMPLIFIER LIMITER E BALANCED I MODULATOR *402 382 ATTITUDE GYRO  SLAVED DIRECTIONAL GYRO I sum AMPLIFIER /357 374 403 i 388 PHASE BAN K PHASE SENSITIVE CORRECTION SENSITIVE AMPLIFIER CIRCUIT AMPLIFIER I \92/ INVENTOR EDWARD C; STREETER JR. 
BY f 
TTORNEY June 7, 1949. E. c. STREETER, JR 2, 
' RADIO NAVIGATION SYSTEM Filed Aug. 4, 1943 9 Sheets-Sheet 9 FIG. I5 {270 I 9O 4l8 sum AMPLIFIER I PHASE SENSITIVE PHASE (9 4|9./ AMPUFIER DETECTOR 4'7 MOTOR /42O INVENTOR EDWARD C. STREETER JR. 
ATTORN EY atented June 7, 194 
UNITED STATES OFFICE RADIO NAVIGATION SYSTEM Edward C. Streeter, .lr., Old Westbury, N. Y., as- 
signor to The Sperry Corporation, a corporation of Delaware 24 Claims. 
 This invention relates generally to radio position finding and, more specifically, to means and methods for the automatic navigation of a mobile craft whereby said craft may be directed to any chosen objective along any selected path or ground track and at any desired ground speed, irrespective of visibility, wind, drift, and other conditions, 
 There has been a long-standing demand for an automatic radio navigation system which would relieve a navigator from drudgery and allow him to assume a supervisory role. Prior to the present invention a navigator was compelled to play the part of a calculator and a human servo means linking the various navigational aids to the operational controls of a craft. The problem of air navigation has become most acute because of the rising density of air traffic between metropolitan centers, the ever-increasing aircraft speeds, the growing insistence upon accurate airline schedules, the shortened interval between successive flights along the same routes, and the necessity for establishing a plurality of air lanes between important cities to accommodate different types and speeds of passenger, freight, and private air transportation. It is now more important than ever that a navigator not only know the instantaneous position of a craft but that he be enabled to alter this position according to a prescribed space-time relationship. A system of navigation is required that will relieve the navigator of the constant task of acting as a step in the solution of the navigational problem and substitute for him untiringly accurate automatic computers and electromechanical servo devices whose operation he merely has to supervise. 
 An automatic radio navigation system must possess certain characteristics to gain universal acceptance. It is of utmost importance that reliable operation be secured, since the more functions automatically performed by a device, the greater is the responsibility entrusted to it. The overall errors of a system should be determinable in order that the positional data at all times maintain the required accuracy. The ability of an unlimited number of craft to use the system simultaneously is also highly desirable. A system adaptable for long ranges reduces the number of necessary ground stations to a minimum and relieves the navigator of the burden of constantly setting a new problem into the calculator. The location of a craft is preferably determined quantitatively rather than indicated graphically in order to overcome the scale limitations and lack of flexibility resulting from the employment of maps, and also to provide simple and accurate means for obtaining automatic course and speed control signals. It is desirable that the positional information be provided with reference to general spatial coordinates rather than with relation to the position of a particular ground station in order that the crafts location be comprehensible without resort to special charts or the necessity for mental interpretation. Despite the far-reaching commercial possibilities of a practical system, all known attempts at automatic radio position finding or ground track control have suffered from either serious errors or severe limitations and often both. 
 Most prior systems of automatic position finding require a knowledge of the absolute orientation of the dirigible craft. On aircraft where the position finding problem is most pressing, this orientation must be supplied from the earths magnetic field as measured by a magnetically slaved directional gyroscope or similar means. Not only is the direction of the earths field subject to locally produced deviations which must be corrected, but there can be no accurate knowledge of the magnetic variation since the position of the craft is unknown, and an average value must be employed in any automatic system. Therefore, a system which does not require a knowledge of the crafts orientation is highly desirable. 
 Many automatic position-finding systems compute position from the directional information supplied by automatic radio direction finders, or they indicate position on a map by means of intersecting pointer arms of appropriately positioned and oriented directional repeaters. Radio direction finders, however, are capable of measuring only the direction from which radio waves arrive, and the assumption that the arriving Wave front is perpendicular to the line extending to the radio station is subject to grave qualifications. The local quadrantal error common to all radio loop antennas may be compensated for, but a heterogeneous or irregular character of the terrain lying along the radio transmission path causes an indeterminate bending of the wave front. These variable distortions of direction unfortunately become most pronounced in mountainous regions where accurate navigation is most essential. Another inherent disadvantage of all position finding systems based on directional information is that any error in direction, what ever the cause, introduces an error in position that increases in direct proportion to the distance from the radio transmitter. No known attempt 3 has been made to construct a computer which takes into account the spherical character of the earth. The inclusion of this factor is essential to accurate position finding at any but the shortest distances. Thus, the useful radius of operation of such systems is very restricted. 
 A solution of the position-finding problem has also been attempted by providing a radio distance-finding apparatus on the dirigible craft. In such a system signals are radiated from the craft, received by fixed ground stations, and reradiated back to the craft. The time intervals between the original transmission of the signals from the craft and the ultimate reception thereat are functions of the distances from the craft to the ground stations, and this information may be employed as the basis for acalculationofi csition. This procedure, however, has the disadvantage that only a limited number of craft may use the system simultaneously, and every craft must carry bulky and power-consuming transmitting equipment. 
 It is therefore theprinci-pal object of the present invention to provide a novel automatic radio position finding and ground track control system that is based upon distance information without requiring directional radioreception, directional radio transmission, or knowledge of a crafts absolute orientation and yet allowing simultaneous use by an unlimited number of craft over short or long ranges. 
 Another object is to provide an'automatic computer whereby the instantaneous position of a mobile craft is continuously determined from a knowledge of the differences in the distances of said craft from three predetermined points. 
 Still another object is to provide an automatic computer utilizing the knowledge of the instantaneous position of a craft to indicate said crafts displacement from a desired ground track and distance from a desired objective. 
 A further object is to provide speed and course control means on a mobile craft whereby a signal caused by a deviation from a desired average ground speed or a desired ground track actuates said respective control means and constrains said craft to alter its position according to a prescribed space-time relationship. 
 Yet another object is to provide a method of and means for obtainin quantitative expressions for the instantaneous position of a mobile craft by solving two adjacent spherical triangles formed by arcs of great circles interconnecting three spaced radio stations and said craft. 
 Other objects will become apparent during the course of the following description and in the appended claims. 
 The essence of the present invention is an automatic radio position-finding system adapted for simultaneous use by an unlimited number of craft over either great or small distances and requiring a minimum number of radio ground stations positioned where convenient. The information derived from these ground stations is in terms of distance rather than direction, and knowledge of a crafts absolute orientation is unnecessary. The functional relationships between the positions of the ground stations, the distance information they supply, and the unknown position of the craft are expressed in terms of physically realizable quantities, such as mechanical rotations, mechanical translations, electrical magnitudes, or electrical phase angles. The intangible mathematical relationships are thus given objective form. The quantities characterizing the unknown positional variables are controlled by electronic, electromechanical or other servo mechanisms that cause these variables to satisfy their respective defining equations through the process of continuously seeking points of equilibrium where errors created by assumed values of the variables vanish. Thus, a craft is continuously supplied with a knowledge of its position with respect to fixed space coordinates. The observed positional data are automatically compared with the desired positional data, and deviations therefrom cause appropriate corrections to the heading and speed of the craft to maintain the observed and desired positions coincident. 
 The features of the invention will become more apparent in connection with the following detailed description of the illustrated embodiment thereof, together with the accompanying drawings, wherein: 
 Fig. 1 is a graph illustrating the problem solved by the present invention; 
 Fig. 2 is a graph illustrating the location of a craft in terms of polar-coordinates (be. and 1'. 
 Fig. 3 is a graph illustrating the location of a craft in terms of latitude LP and longitude M. 
 Fig. 4 is a graph illustrating the displacement d of a craft from a desired ground track S and distance 8 from a desired objective T. 
 Fig. 5 is a graph showing significant operational boundaries of the present system. 
 Figs. 6, '7, and 8 are polar graphs illustrating the operation of a servo system shown in Fig. 11. 
 Fig. 9 is a block diagram of an embodiment of the present invention. 
 Fig. 10 is a block diagram of means for determining distance diiferences M. and Ice of a craft from three fixed points; 
 Fig. 11 is a block diagram of means for determining the bearing a of a craft from a fixed point 0; 
 Fig. 12 is a block diagram of means for determining the distance r of a craft from a fixed point 0 and the latitude LP and longitude 7\i of said craft; 
 Fig. 13 is a block diagram of means for determining the displacement d of a craft from a desired ground track S and distance 8 from a desired objective T; 
 Fig. 14 is a block diagram of course control means; and 
 Fig. 15 is a block diagram of means for determining the ground speed of a craft. 
 Similar characters of reference are used in all the above figures to indicate corresponding parts. Arrows are provided in Figs. 9-15 to indicate the direction of control or energy flow. 
 The principal symbols employed throughout the specification and on the drawings are collected and defined in the following list for the purpose of convenient reference and as an aid to the clear understanding of the description. 
Notation Angles generated by clockwise rotation are considered positive. 
A=known position of radio transmitter A. 
B=kncwn position of radio transmitter 33; 
O=known position of radio transmitter O. 
P=unknown position of mobile craft. 
T=known position of objective. 
S=desired rhumb line ground track passing through T with a given positive sense. 
a=known arc of great circle between 0 and A. 
t=known are or great circle between and B. 
r=unknown arc of great circle between 0 and P. 
rA=unknown arc of great circle between A and P. 
rB=unknown arc of great circle between B and P. 
lcAErA-r=observed arc difference between TA and r. 
lcBErB-r=observed arc difference between TB and 1'. 
an, we, we, and zvT=linear distance east (positive) or west (negative) of A, B, P, and T, respectively, with reference to 0. 
31A, 113, yr, and yr=linear distance north (positive) or south (negative) of A, B, P, and T, respectively, with reference to 0. 
OP, AP, and BP=vector distance of O, A, and B, 
respectively, to P. 
=known angle included between arcs a and b measured clockwise from a. 
a=unknown angle included between arcs a and 1' measured clockwise from a. 
Lo, LP, and LT=latitude of O, P, and T, respectively, where north latitudes are considered positive and south latitudes negative. 
)(0, AP, and kT=longitude of O, P, and T, respectively, where east longitudes are considered positive and west longitudes negative. 
ZELPLo=algebraic difference between the latitudes of P and O. 
DLoExP)\o=algebraic difference between the longitudes of P and O. 
p=departure or are between the meridians we and )(o as measured along the parallel LP where p is positive when P is east of O and negative when P is West of O. 
0=angle as measured at O in a clockwise direction from true north to the are a. 
T=angle as measured at T in a clockwise direction from true north to the portion of S directed away from T. 
q=proportionality constant relating angular and linear measurement on the surface of the earth. 
d=1inear displacement or the perpendicular distance of P with respect to the ground track S where displacements to the right of a viewpoint on S looking along the ground track in a positive sense are considered positive and to the left negative. 
s=distance of P to T where distances measured ahead are considered positive and behind negative. 
c=error signal applied to a servo system employed to solve an equation. 
u=drift angle, that is, the angle between the ground track S and the necessary heading of the craft to enable the same to follow this ground track. 
n=proportionality constant such that the product of n and the sine of the limiting magnitude of an arc is equal to unity. 
+=positive sign when associated on the drawings with an amplifier indicates that there is no phase reversal between the input and output circuits and when associated with a mechanical differential indicates that the output rotation is proportional to the algebraic sum of the input rotations. 
-=negative sign when associated on the drawings with an amplifier indicates that there is a phase reversal between the input and output circuits and when associated with a mechanical differential indicates that the output rotation is proportional to the algebraic difference between the input rotations. 
Graphical problem; 
 In accordance with one form of the present invention, means are provided on a mobile craft situated at some unknown position indicated by a point P in Figs. 1 through 5 for receiving signals radiated in predetermined time relationship from three separately spaced radio transmitters having predetermined positions indicated by points 0, A, and B, respectively, in Figs. 1 through 5. The time intervals between the arrivals at the craft of the signals from these separate transmitters are automatically measured, and, together with a knowledge of the velocity of propagation of the radio waves and of the initial time relationships of the signals, two independent difierences between the distances from the transmitters to the position of the craft are determined. 
 As is well known, the path of a point that maintains a constant difference between its distances from two fixed points describes a hyperbola. The three transmitters may, therefore, be considered the foci of two independent families of hyperbolas, the transmitter at 0 being a focus common to both families. Every position of the craft in space is determined by the intersection of a particular hyperbola of each family. In the specific case illustrated in Fig. 1, the difierence between the distances from P to B and P to O defines the hyperbola 3! while the difference between the distances from P to A and P to O defines the hyperbola 32. Obviously a map may be constructed showing a plurality of hyperbolas drawn with O and A or O and B as foci and covering the range of values for distance differences in convenient increments. The unknown position P may then be determined by locating the intersection of whatever hyperbolas are defined by the observed distance differences. Having thus found his position, a navigator may determine graphically the direction and distance of his craft from a desired ground track S passing through an objective T. The craft may then be directed according to these determinations. This process, however, must be rapidly and continually repeated to meet changing wind conditions and to ascertain whether the desired ground speed is being maintained. This arduous task is entirely performed by means of the present invention with a precision unobtainable by the most skilled navigator. 
Mathematical analysis The present invention solves analytically or vectorially the problem presented graphically by Fig. 1. The first step in the preferred method of solution is illustrated by Fig. 2. Points 0, A, B and P are assumed to be on the surface of a spherical earth. Since the shortest distance on the surface of a sphere between any two points on that surface is measured by the lesser arc of a great circle that joins the two points, such arcs may be drawn between the positions of the radio transmitters and the unknown position of the mobile craft. The arcs between 0 and A and O and B may be labeled a and b, respectively, and are readily known since their end points are predetermined. The arcs extending from P to O, A, and B are given reference symbols 1', TA, and re, respectively. These arcs are unknown, but the differences in their magnitudes are observed quantities which may be termed kit and Ice and are defined by the expressions: 
kA-=-rAr=observed arc difference between TA and r kBErBr=observedarc difierence between rs and r The constant angle indicated by between arcs a .and b is, of course, also known. 
 The position of P may be established with respect to O by determining the distance r and the angle a measured between the arcs a and T. It will be observed that arcs a, TA, and 1 form an oblique triangle while arcs 1), TB, and 7' form an adjacent triangle. The two triangles have the side 1- in common, nd it is this property that enables the problem to be solved. 
 The law of cosines states that in a spherical triangle the cosine of any side is equal to the product of the cosines of the other two sides plus the product of the sines of these two sides and the cosine of their included angle. Thus, spherical triangle OPB provides the relation, 
cos TB=COS 1) cos r+sin b sin'r cos (a) (1) Similarly spherical triangle OPA gives the equa-. tion, 
cos TA=COS a. cos r+sin a. sin r cos 95a (2) Substituting lcA+r for TA in Equation 2 and employing the identity for the cosine of the sum of two angles results in cos lcA cos rsin kA sin 1': 
cos a cos r-i-sin a sin 1' cos via (3) Dividing Equation 3 by cos r and grouping the terms in tan 1- gives (sin lcA-l-sin 0, cos (15a) tan r=cos k.4cos a (4) esle ri i (6) sin lc +sin b cos Equating Equations 5 and 6 and rearranging results in tan 7* (cos k.4 cos a) sin b cos (p-gm)- (cos It's-cos 1)) sin a cos a+(COS k.4c0s a) sin lcB(cos Ice-cos b) sin kA==0 (7) Equation 7 is an implicit equation in one unknown quantity of the form: 
where U, V, and W are determined by the known locations of the radio stations and by the observed hyperbolic positional data of the craft. 
 Equation '7 may be readily solvedfor a by expressing its terms in the form of physically realizable quantities and employing a suitable servo device to vary the quantity-characterizing 45a. The equation, however, is placed in an equivalent but more convenient form to suit the particular embodiment of the invention ilillustrated. Since IcA, kn, can never'be greater than either a. and b, the base lines, and since a and b never attain values greater than perhaps 20 of earths arc, or 1200 miles, the-factors representing the difference between the qosines of these quantities will remainclose to zero. It' is helpful to convert thesecosine functions to sine functions and then increase the sensitivity of the :computing'system,- as will be hereinafter morefullyadisclosed, by multiply-1 ing the resulting sine functionsqby a constant 11.: suchthat these terms-varyfrom zero to unity for the given rangessof, kn, ks, a and b. 
 For this purpose the following trigonometric identity may be employed: 
Expanding Equation '7 with the aid of 9 and multiplying the sine functions by results in n sin /g(lCA+a)1lSiI1 '(-k.4a)n sin b cos (-a)+7'l sin (kB+b)n.sin (ksb)n sin a cos a-7L sin A;(lc.4+a)n sin (7c,1a)n sin ks+n sin /2(kB+b)n sin /z'(ks-b)n sin 104:0 (10) Following the same reasoning as above, Equation 5 may be rewritten as (n sin k +10 sin a cos 4%) tan r+ n sin (k +a)n sin (k -a) =0 (11) and Equation 6 may be rewritten as +(n sin [CB-{"71 sin b cos tan 1+ In order to avoid unnecessary duplication in the computing apparatus, Equation 10 may be rearranged as follows: 
or alternatively It is seen that in the process of solving Equation 13 for qa, factors are obtained which may be employed in the subsequent solution of Equation 11 for 1'. Likewise, the particular form of the Equation 14 provides factors for the solution of Equation 12. In the illustrated embodiment of the invention switching means are provided for enabling either the combination of Equations 13 and 11 or the pair of Equations 14 and 12 to be utilized, as desired, for calculating first (,ba and then 1'. 
 It is well to point out that the above spherical trigonometric equations have general utility since they are equally as accurate for line of sight distances as for long ranges. At such short distances it is readily apparent that the sine and tangent terms are substantially equal to their arcs in radians, and under these conditions Equation 10 may be rewritten as respectively. Equations 15,-16,"and'17 are identical to those equations that would have been derived if the problem had been initially considered in the more limited terms of plane trigonometry, an analysis inapplicable to appreciable areas of the earths surface. 
 The knowledge of fl and r fixes the of the craft at P. However, the location of P by these polar coordinates is not easily interpreted and does not provide positional data in a form convenient for control purposes. What is required is a knowledge of the crafts position with respect to general space coordinates independent of the particular location of the radio transmitter 0. 
 It seems that the most satisfactory method of determining P is in terms of latitude and longitude, and the manner of determining these geographical coordinates from the known data is illustrated in Fig. 3. In Fig. 3 the parallel of latitude L is drawn from O to an intersection with the meridian \P passing through P. The parallel L0, meridian XP, and are r form a right spherical triangle. In a similar manner the parallel of latitude LP is drawn from P to an intersection with the meridian to passing through 0. The parallel LP, the meridian A0, and the arc 1 form another right spherical triangle. The algebraic diiference between the latitudes of P and O is denoted 1 and is illustrated by the length of the arc between P and the intersection of the parallel Lo with the meridian RP. The departure or are between the meridians RP and A0 as measured along the parallel LP is designated by the symbol p. The angle as measured at O in a clockwise direction from true north to the are a is a known value denoted by 0. 
 The law of sines states that in a spherical triangle the sines of the sides are proportional to the sines of the opposite angles. Since 1 is a side of a right triangle having r as the hypotenuse, one may write: 
 sin 1 sin (0+,,90) Since sin (0+45u.-90) =cos (0+a) 1ELP-LO, Equation 18 may be rewritten as -11 sin (LPLO) +11. sin 1' cos (0+a) =0 (19) =sin r (18) and =sin r (20) sin sfi 'nfi LP 21) Eliminating sin p in Equation 20 by employing Equation 21, and rearranging the result gives cos Lpn sin (xp-7\o) n sin 1' sin (a-l-es) =0 (22) Equation 22 may be readily solved for the crafts longitude \P. 
 Equations 19 and 22 may be somewhat simplified by replacing the sines of the arcs by the arcs themselves when the latter are small or when a plane trigonometric solution is satisfactory and the greater accuracy of a spherical trigonometric 10 solution does not justify the greater cost of the non-linear components required by a spherical triangle computer. 
 The knowledge of the crafts latitude LP and longitude AP is of immense importance. However, it is desirable to know the perpendicular displacement d of the craft from the desired ground track S and the distance s from the desired objective T. The geometry of this further problem is illustrated in Fig. 4 where the latitude and longitude of T are denoted by Dr and )vr, respectively, and the orientation of the ground track S is indicated by the angle 7' as measured at T in a clockwise direction from true north to the portion of S directed away from T. A rhumb line, that is, a line that crosses successive meridians at a constant angle, is a satisfactory ground track S, since the craft at P is never more than a few hundred miles from its immediate objective T. The choice of a rhumb line ground track enables the problem to be considered in terms of plane triangles without disturbing the accuracy of the results. If P is given rectangular coordinates mi and w and T is defined by coordinates mr and yr, then lines 33 and 3d represent linear distances $P$r and yr yr, respectively. Analytical geometry provides the following expression for the distance d of a point sci, or from a straight line passing through a point arr, yr at an angle 1: 
It may be correctly assumed here that the departure between two places, that is, distance east or west, is substantially equal to the departure between their meridians as measured in the middle latitude of the places. Thus, the length of line 33 is L L x x =q()\ cos (24) and the length of line 34 is yPyT=q(LPLT) (25) where q is a proportionality constant relating angular and linear measurement on the surface of the earth. Substituting the above Equations 2e and 25 in Equation 23, there results: 
s= (mp-4w) csc 1- (27) The knowledge of the distance s is employed, as is hereinafter disclosed in detail, to compute the average ground speed of the craft or to enable the ground speed to be maintained at a predetermined value. 
 Although the above analysis is presented in some detail because a system based upon it is extremely versatile and accurate, nevertheless, 
 there are many variations and alternate methodsof solution that are embraced by the present invention. For example, one may eliminate the steps of solving for the crafts latitude and longitude, if desired, and pass from the polar solution of the crafts position in terms of a and r'tdirectly to the computation of the distance s and displacement d. However, only slight reductionin the complexity of the computer is attained .by this change. The fixed quantities which must be introduced into the system are not as readily ascertained as in the illustrated embodiment nor are the operations of the necessary servor mechanisms as easily monitored as when LP and Mare calculated. Vector analysis may be employed where the more rigorous spherical trigonometric analysis is unnecessarily accurate. 
 One form of vector analysis is discussed to illustrate the scope and varied aspects of the present'invention. Referring now to Fig. 4, let (The considered at the origin of a rectangular coordinate system. Points A, B, and P are defined byabs'cissas :rA, we, and are, respectively, and by ordinates of 11A, 11B, and 11?, respectively. Lines 35,:36, and 3! represent the vector distances OP, AP, and BP respectively. The assumption is made that qk. andqkB are substantially equal to the differences between the absolute magnitudes of the vector distances AP and DP and between BP and OP Equations 29 and 30 may be rewritten in terms of dififerences in the absolute magnitudes of complex quantities representing the vector distances .by employing the familiar operator to indicate the quadrature relationship between the coordinate axes. The resulting equations are The left sides of the Equations 31 and 32 may be characterized by direct voltages proportional to the observed distance differences while the right sides of the equations are formed with the aid of assumed coordinates of the unknown position of 'the' craft in the following manner. The Xtand :iY coordinates are conveniently represented by alternating voltages 90 apart in phase. Voltages proportional to the quantities 512A, 71% and we, We are supplied by attenuators or voltage dividers manually set to the known coordinates of .A and B, respectively, while voltages propor- :tional 'to the unknown variables we and dye are providedby similar means adjusted b servo mechanisms that are actuated by the difference between the known and calculated sides of Equations 31 and 32. The portions of the equations within the absolute magnitude signs may be built up" from theabove six elemental alternating volt- I 2 ages by car y ng out the indicated additions and subtractions in simple and stable electronic circuits. The resultant voltages, proportional to and :cP+: z/P, are rectifier to obtain the absolute magnitudes of these quantities. The third rectified voltage is subtracted from the first and the second rectified voltages to give the right sides of Equations 31 and 32, respectively. The observed distance differences on the'left sides of the equations are compared as to magnitude with the calculated differences on right sides of these equations, and the resulting voltage inequalities are employed to control the servo devices that adjust are and MP. The servo mechanism alter the unknown variables until the control voltages become zero at which point the coordinates of the craft with respect to station 0 have assumed correct values. It seems evident that the objective T may be characterized by alternating voltages proportional to :01: and gig/r and distance 8 and displacement it may be readily computed from the vector relationships. 
 Vectorial methods of position finding of the type discussed in the foregoing paragraphs have the advantage of great simplicity, but the fiat earth assumption upon which the are based is not sufiiciently valid at distances beyond, say, a hundred miles. to enable" full use to be made of the accuracy available in the incoming signals. Therefore, the particular apparatus chosen for illustration performs analytical rather than vectorial calculations in carrying out; the objects of the present invention. 
Particular embodiment of invention A particular embodiment of the invention is shown in Fig. 9, wherein a wave collector 4|, symbolized by an antenna, is responsive to signals received from the three radio stations 0, A, and B shown in Figs. 1-5. If the wave collector is mounted an a mobile craft at the position P, the signals aretransmitted in predetermined time relationship directly from these stations, whereas if the wave collector is permanently situated say at 0, then signals are transmitted from the craft, received at the radio stations, and relayed to the wave collector 4!, by wire connection if desired. The signals may be in the form of pulses, continuous waves, or any type of modulated wave. The signals-as received by wave collector 4| have certain predetermined phase or time relationships dependent upon apparatus design considerations and the fixed geometry of the stations and also phase or time displacements caused by the difference between the distances from the mobile craft to'the stations. 
 A distance difference computer 42 is supplied by the wave collector 4|. Computer 42, one form of which is illustrated in Fig. 10, is adapted to separate the incoming signals on the basis of their particular carrier frequency, pulse repetition rate, or other identifying characteristic. When separated the intelligence bearing portions of the signals from station 0 are compared as to phase with similar waves from stations A and B and shafts 43 and 44 are caused to rotate in proportion to the observed distance difierences its and 70B, respectively. Calibrated dials 45 and 4G geared to shafts 43 and llrespectively, indicate values which define the crafts position P in hyperbolic coordinates as illustrated by Fig. 1. 
An angle s computer 41, one form of which is 'shownlin Fig. 11,. iscontinuously supplied with the instantaneous values of ICA and its in terms of the angular positions of shafts 43 and 4 respectively. Manually adjustable shafts 48, 49 and are provided for initially setting into the computer 4'! those rotations corresponding to the known positional data of stations 0, A, and B necessary to constitute either Equation 13 or Equation 14, discussed above, in which a is the only unknown. Thus shafts 48, 49 and 5! are adjusted so that their accompanying dials 53, 52, and 54, respectively, read are a, are l), and angle respectively. These constants have been illustrated in Fig. 2. A shaft 55 is actuated by servo means operative in response to errors in the particular equation employed. A dial 56 geared to shaft 55 indicates the angle 45a which is the continuous solution of the Equation 13 or 14. Angle a is a measure of the absolute direction of the craft from the radio station 0. This information enables a pilot to follow any desired great circle track to O by merely choosing the appropriate value of a and then steering the craft in such a manner as to maintain this angle constant. It is to be noted that this maneuver is accomplished without any necessity for the knowledge of either the direction of arrival of the radio waves from O or the orientation of the craft. The portion of the system thus far disclosed may, therefore, often be utilized quite apart from the remaining structure. The addition of each further device, however, contributes to the scope and versatility of the system. 
 A computer 57, one form of which is illustrated and discussed with reference to Fig. 12, is supplied with the value of a from the device 41 in terms of the angular position of shaft 55. Leads 58 and '59 from computer 41 are employed to introduce factors in the form of voltages evaluated in the calculation of 455,. These factors enable either Equation 11 or Equation 12 to be constituted according to whether Equations 13 or 14, respectively, have previously been employed in the calculation of 4. Equations 11 and 12 contain only T as an unknown variable, and servo means are provided in computer 51 for solving these equations. A dial 6|, driven by a shaft 62 connected with the servo device, continuously indicates the value of the arc r. The indication of 7 is particularly useful when the craft is travelling along a great circle track toward or away from the point 0. It is to be remembered that each group of stations utilized by the system provides three homing points since the position of any station may be chosen as the point 0 merely by altering the constants set into the computers Q? and 59 and the tuning of computer t2. 
 Shafts 63 and 64 are provided for manually setting into the computer 51 rotations proportional to the known latitude Lo and angle 0, respectively, as indicated by calibrated dials 65 and 66, respectively. The introduction of Lo and 6 together with the continuously evolved Values of (15a and 1' enables the Equation 19 to be constituted, in which the only unknown quantity is the crafts latitude LP. Servo means are employed to solve this equation, and a shaft 61 is rotated thereby in proportion to LP and a dial 68 geared to this shaft conveniently indicates this quantity. 
 The known longitude no is inserted into computer 51 by a shaft 69 adjusted according to the indication of a calibrated dial 1 I. The knowledge of (Int, r, LP, and )0 provides the requisite inf ormation to enable computer 51' to constitute Equation 22, in which only the crafts longitude M? is unknown. A servo device solves this equation and actuates a shaft 12 in proportion .to the longitude )\P, whose magnitude is continuously indicated by a dial 13 geared to the shaft 12. The indication of the crafts latitude and longitude provides a continuous knowledge of the crafts position in the most universal and understandable form. The accuracy and reliability of computers 41 and 51 may be periodically verified by comparing on a suitable map the intersection of the hyperbolic coordinates A and Ice with the intersection of the geographical coordinates LP and AP. The ability to monitor a large portion of the system is a distinct practical advantage. It is evident that by maintaining the latitude or longitude indication constant the craft may be made to travel along a parallel or a meridian, respectively. It is, however, desirable to have complete freedom in the choice of ground track for which reason the following means are provided. 
 A computer 14, one form of which is illustrated and discussed with reference to Fig. 13, is supplied with the values of LP and AP in terms of the angular positions of shafts 61 and 12, respectively. Manually adjustable shafts 75, 1B and T1 are provided for initially setting into computer 14 rotations defining the desired ground track S. Shafts l5, l6 and H are adjusted so that their accompanying calibrated dials l8, l9 and 8! read In, M- and 1-, respectively. These constants have been illustrated in Fig. 4. The knowledge of LT, AT and 1-, together with the Values of LP and ip, provides the requisite information for constituting Equation 26, in which only the displacement at of the craft from S is unknown. 
 The value of d is obtained in terms of an electrical voltage and is indicated by a zero-center meter 82. This meter may be utilized in the manner of the familiar right-left meter, well known in the radio compass and aircraft instrument landing art. This meter reveals any displacement of the craft from the ground track S in both sense and magnitude. 
 Factors evolved in the calculation of ct are employed to constitute either Equation 27 or 28 according to the value of 7'. These equations contain only the distance 8 of the craft from T as an unknown quantity. The magnitude of s is expressed in terms of voltage and is indicated by a zero-center meter 83. This meter provides a reading of the distance from the craft to the desired objective and, furthermore, indicates the sense of this distance, that is, whether the objective lies ahead or behind the position of the craft. 
 A course control device 84, one form of which is illustrated and discussed with reference to Fig. 14, is provided with an automatic gyroscopic pilot device for maintaining the craft stabilized upon a predetermined heading, which is introduced to the control device 84 by means of a manually adjustable shaft 86 set to the angle 7', as indicated by a calibrated dial 8?. Means are also provided in the form of a manually adjustable shaft 38 and geared indicating dial 89 for initially introducing, if known, the crafts approximate drift angle with respect to the desired ground track to modify the heading 1 predetermined by shaft 86. The course control 84 further operates to adjust the heading of the craft in accordance with the displacement signal (1 introduced over a lead from the com-v puter M to direct the craft back to the desired ground track and simultaneously to alter the approximate drift angle of the craft in response to the time integral or average value of the displacement signal, in order to establish the correctdrift 15 angles. .The craft is thus .caused to turn toward thetdire'ction of the wind an amount just sufficient to compensate for the effect of the particular cross wind present. The crafts controls, actuated by course control 84, are symbolized by an aircraft rudder 9| and ailerons 92. 
 A ground speed computer 93 is supplied through a lead 94 from the computer 14 with a voltage proportional to the distance s. The computer 93 is provided with a motive device that produces a motion proportional to an assumed distance .9, whose value is indicated on a dial 95. The assumed magnitude of s is initially made equal to theaactual magnitude of s, as provided from computer '14, by the differential operation of a displacement shaft 96 which is manually adjusted so that a lead-lag meter 91 indicates coincident values-of s. A rate shaft 98 is manually turned so that its accompanying dial 99 reads the ground speed desired for the craft. The speed of the motive device that produces the assumed value of s is controlled by the shaft 98; consequently the assumed distance is altered at a rate proportional to. the desired ground speed. If the actual value of s'does not alter in like manner, a shaft IIlI is actuated by servo means in accordance with the difference between the two rates of variation. The shaft IOI in turn operates a speed control I92, which may be a throttle, a brake, flaps, or the like-, in such manner that the crafts speed is controlled to provide an actual time rate of change of distance to the desired objective that corresponds with the desired ground speed. 
 :In an alternative mode of operation the speed control I02 is disconnected and the assumed value of s is made to follow the actual value by actuating shaft 98 from the servo means with the result that the dial 99 indicates the actual ground speed rather than the desired ground speed. 
 'A manually adjustable shaft I03 is adapted to introduce into the computer 93 a rotation proportional to a reference distance from the desired objective by setting accompanying dial I04 to the appropriate point. Upon the arrival of the craft 'at the position corresponding to this particular distance, a signal is adapted to be transmitted'over a lead I05 to a control device I06, This signal indicates the fulfillment of a particularnavigational problem, and controlled device I96 is adapted either to provide a warning indication to the navigator, to disconnect a portion or the entirety of the computing and control system, or to release a bomb load according to the significance attached to the solution of this problem. 
Discussion of Fig. 
 Fig. 10 illustrates a particular form of the distance difference computer 42 designed, in this case, to abstract information from amplitudemodulated radio waves transmitted on different carrier frequencies from each of the radio stations 0, A, and B. These different carrier waves are similarly modulated by two common signal frequencies. The period of the longer signal wave is. at least equal to toftravel as far as the maximum contemplated range of the position-finding system, while the shorter signal wave has a periodicity that is some convenient multiple of the longer wave. The phase relationships between the signals radiated from the stations are maintained constant by synchronizing all the modulation frequencies by means of wire or radio intercommunication links. The radio frequency waves, as collected by antenna llttaresllpplied to receiver III! which rethe time required for radiation sponds to. the carrier frequency of station B and detects its associated modulation, to receiver I98 which responds to the carrier wave transmitted by station 0 and detects its modulation frequencies, and also to receiver I99 which is in turn responsive to the radio frequency from stationA and reproduces its modulation envelope. 
 The two audio frequencies produced by receiver I9? are separated by band pass filters III and H2. In like manner, the corresponding signals from the receiver I98 and H39 have their low frequencies transmitted by band pass filters H3 and Il l, respectively, and their higher audio frequencies transmitted by band pass filters H5 and H6, respectively. The low audio frequency outputs from band pass filters HI and IM are introduced into linear phase shifters ill and H3, respectively. The phase shifted outputs-of devices H1 and H8 are amplified in amplifiers I I9 and I2I, respectively, and supply one input of phase meters 522 and 523, respectively. 
 The low audio frequency, transmitted by band pass filter I I3 and derived from station 0, is amplified by an amplifier I24 without any intermediate phase shifting. The output of amplifier I24 provides a reference input for phase meters I22 and I23. These phase meters are each adapted to provide a direct voltage that is proportional to the phase difference between the two inputs, and Whose polarity reverses as the phase changes from lagging to leading. A meter of this general type has been disclosed by James E. Shepherd in U. S. Application No. 375,373, Patent 2,370,692 issued March 6, 1%5, entitled Phase angle indicator and filed January 22, 1941. 
 In a similar manner the high frequency audio waves transmitted'by band pass filters H2 and IIS are phase shifted by devices I25 and I26, respectively, similar to phase shifters II! and H8. Phase shifters E25 and I26 are connected by gearing I21 and I28, respectively, to phase shifters I I1 and I I8, respectively, in such a ratio that the higher frequency waves are shifted at n times the rate of the lower frequency waves, where n is the frequency multiple relating the higher to the lower waves. Under these conditions the time delays introduced by either phase shifters I25 and H1 or I26 and H8 in their respective waves are equal. 
 The outputs of phase shifters I25 and I26 are supplied through amplifiers I29 and I3I, respectively, to phase meters I32 and I33, respectively, similar to devices I22 and I23. The output of band pass filter H5 is amplified by an amplifier I34 and applied to reference inputs of meters I32 and I33 without any intermediate phase shifting. The direct voltage reversible polarity outputs of phase meters I22 and I32 are suitably amplified and limited by devices I35 and I35, respectively, and combined in a summing amplifier I31. The summing amplifier I31 serves as a signal source for a balanced modulator I38, which acts to convert the impressed direct voltage to an alternating voltage convenient for controlling a servo device. A phase sensitive amplifier I39 is responsive to the output of the balanced modulator I38 and actuates a motor MI. The motor MI, acting through reduction gearing I42 and shafts Hi3 and 49, controls the position of phase shifters Ill and I25. In a similar manner, the outputs of phase meters I23 and I33 are passed through amplifier limiters IM and M5, respectively, and added in summing amplifier I45. The output of summing amplifier I46 ..is 
impressed on the signal input' of a balanced modulator I41 whose alternating voltage output actuates a motor I49 as controlled by phase sensitive amplifier I48. The motor I69 drives through reduction gearing I'5I and shafts I52 and 43 to position phase shifters l I 8 and I26. 
 In the operation of the computer 42 illustrated in Fig. 10, any difference in the distance 3 between the craft and stations and B introduces spatial phase shifts between the modulation frequencies from. these stations. If phase shifters H1 and I25 are not positioned so as to correct these phase shifts, the phase meters I22 and I32produce outputs proportional to the residual phase differences. The output of phase meter I22 .roughly. and unambigously determine this phase shift, while the output of phase meter i322 indicates the phase shift as determined with reference to the nearest coincident phase relationship of the higher audio frequency waves. The 
limiting of amplifiers I35 and I36 is such that the output of phase meter l22 predominates over the output of phase meter I32 except close to coincident phase relationship of the low frequencies, under which conditions phase meter I32 has substantially full control. Thus the output of meter I32 serves to provide the final sensitive control of the motor I4 I Phase shifters H1 and IE5 are actuated by motor I4I as long as there is any combined output from sum amplifier I31. A1; equilibrium devices II1 andIZ5 introduce phase shifts in the frequencies they transmit equal to the phase shifts introduced by the difference its in the distances between the craft and stations 0 and Discussion of Fig. 11 
 Referring now to Fig. 11, the particular embodiment of the computer 41 chosen for illustration is an electromechanical calculator that employs electricity as a medium in which the intangible mathematical operations indicated by Equations 13 or 14 are given objective form. The mechanism for making calculations is to provide a servo device with means for comparing the attenua-. 
tions of a plurality of electrical transmission paths and means for adjusting at least one attenuation to produce a null balance. 
The electrical transmission paths comprise aplurality of interconnected voltage dividers I55- I59; I6II65, some initially set according to known constant factors, others continuously adjusted according to known variable factors, and several connected to the servo device. These voltage dividers each act to multiply two quantities together, where one quantity is expressed as a voltage and the other is expressed in mechanical form. The factor proportional to the voltage is impressed across the voltage divider while the mechanical factor is the motion that moves the contact arm. The voltage measured at the contact is proportional to the product of the first two factors. The actual voltage on the contact arm is equal to the impressed voltage multiplied by the ratio of the resistance between the point of contact and ground to the total resistance of the 18 voltage divider. The nature of the multiplication, therefore, may be controlled by suitably controlling the resistance of the voltage divider. 
 The multiplication of an impressed voltage by a function may be accomplished if the resistance is made to vary properly in accordance with'this function. The required variation may be obtained by winding wire of constant resistance per unit length upon a card whose width is determined by the mathematical derivative of the desired function. The card is conveniently bent according to the arc of a circle, and the contact arm is rotated about the center, making sliding contact with the even edge of the card. Since multiplication by this method is actually a process of fractionation, it is particularly well suited to the trigonometric functions employed in the present system. 
 Bufier amplifiers I66I69; I1II15 are provided to enable the output potential of the voltage dividers to be measured without drawing current through the sliding contacts and thus impairing the accuracy of the multiplication. The amplifiers also serve to provide balanced outputs to ground where necessary and to prevent impedance interaction between the various voltage dividers. In Fig. 11 and subsequent figures, plus signs associated with such amplifiers indicate that there is no phase reversal between input and output circuits while minus signs indicate that there is a phase reversal. 
 The means for comparing attenuations of the transmission paths is a voltage summing amplifier I16 which compares the relative attenuations by algebraically adding the relative voltage amplitudes transmitted by the transmission paths. The servo device is illustrated as a phase sensitive motor I11 which is controlled by the output voltage of the summing amplifier I16 and which generates the dependent variable, in this case the angle (Pa, in mechanical form in the process of seeking a substantially zero control voltage by adjusting the attenuation of two transmission paths. The solution of Equation 13 or 14 is, consequently, indicated by the vanishing of the output voltage from the summing amplifier I16. The means for obtaining the particular functions, mechanical rotations, and interconnections necessary for constituting either Equation 13 or 14 are now discussed in detail. 
 Shafts 48 and 49, manually rotated in proportion to known arcs a and b, respectively, as indicated by calibrated dials 52 and 53, respectively, each supply one of the inputs of mechanical differentials I18 and I19, respectively. Shafts l8! and I82 are also driven through suitable mechanical connections by shafts 48 and 49, respectively. Shafts I8! and I82 rotate electrical contact arms I and I88, respectively, on voltage dividers I55 and I56, respectively, and actuate one of. the inputs of mechanical differentials I83 and I86, respectively. Dashed radial lines, like reference line I80, are drawn from the centers of all voltage dividers in Fig. 11 and subsequent figures to indicate the zero angle position of the associated contact arms. The physical angle of rotation differs from the mathematical magnitude of arc or angle by a constant multiple such that the product of this proportionality constant and the maximum difference in the mathematical magnitudes of arcs or angles encountered is equal to the total rotational angle physically available on the voltage divider. For example, the arc a denotes the great circle distance between 0 and A. This are is always positive and has a value lying somewhere between zero and say 20 of earth's are (1200 miles). Almost a 360 rotational angle is physically available on the voltage divider I55, and therefore the proportionality constant in this instance may be about 18. Voltage dividers I55 and I56 have resistances that vary according to the product of n and the sine of the mathematical angle of rotation. Thus, a voltage supplied through a lead 2 I3 and impressed across the Voltage divider I55 provides a potential as measured at the contact arm I85 that corresponds to the input voltage multiplied by the factor n sin a. Likewise, a voltage supplied through a lead 2I4 and impressed across the voltage divider I56 is multiplied by the factor n sin b. 
 Shafts 43 and 44, continuously rotated in accordance with kn. and Ice, respectively, drive shafts I81 and I88, respectively, which latter serve to actuate electrical contact arms I89 and I91, respectively, of voltage dividers I62 and I63, A 
respectively. Voltage dividers I62 and I63 have resistances that Vary in accordance with the product of n and the sine of the mathematical angle of rotation. The voltage divider I62 is centeretapped to ground and has two balanced inputs supplied in phase opposition through the amplifier I13. The impressed voltage is multiplied by the function 1:, sin kg in the voltage divider I62. In like manner voltage divider I63 is also center-tapped to ground and has two balanced inputs supplied in phase opposition by the amplifier I14. The impressed voltage is multiplied by the functionn sin Ice in the voltage divider I63. The balanced inputs for voltage dividers I62 and I 63 are necessary since the functions the latter introduce may be positive or negative. 
 Shafts I92 and I93. are also driven by shafts 43 and 44, respectively. Shafts I92 and I93 provide the second inputs for differentials I18 and I19, respectively, whose output shafts I96 and I98, respectively, are rotatedoneehalf the algebraic sum of the input rotations. Plus or minus signs associated with the output shafts of mechanical differentials in Fig. 11 and subsequent figures indicate that the output rotations are proportional to the algebraic sums ordifierences, respectively, of the input rotations. Output shafts I96 and I98 turn electrical contact arms I91 and I99, respectively, of the voltage dividers I51 and I 58, respectively. Voltage dividers I51 andl58 have resistances that vary in accordance with the prodnot of n and the sine of the mathematical angle of rotation. The voltage impressed over lead 2 I on voltage divider I5! is therefore multiplied by the function 72 sin /2 (7011-1 0) and the voltage supplied over lead 2; and, impressed on voltage divider I58 is multiplied by the function n sin /2(kB-+b) Shaftsv I94 and I95 like shafts I92 and I93, respectively, are geared to shafts 43 and 44, respectively, and supply the second inputs for differentials I83 and I84, respectively. Output shafts I and 203 of the differentials, I83 and I84, respectively, are rotated one-half the algebraic difference of the input rotations, and actuate electrical contact arms 202 'and294, respectively, of the voltage dividers 1.59. and I.6I, respectively. Voltage dividers I59 and I-BI have resistances which vary. in accordance with the. product of n and the sine of the mathematical rotational angle. A potential supplied from the amplifier I6 6 to voltage divider I59 is, consequently, multiplied by the function 1 sin /2.(ks-a) while,v a voltage from the amplifier I61 impressed across 20 the voltage divider I'6I is in like manner multiplied by the function 1!. sin /2(Iceb). Amplifiers I66 and IE1 reverse the volt-ages applied to them in order to take account of the inherently negative values of n sin /z(]CA-a) and n sin /z(kBb). I 
 The servomotor I11, operating through reduction gearing 205, drives a shaft 206 and also astuates one input of a mechanical differential 208. When the servomotor is at equilibrium the shaft 206 is rotated in proportion to the angle (#2.. Shaft 206 turns a contact arm 2I1 on the voltage divider I64, and also is geared to the shaft 55. Voltage divider I64 has a resistance which varies according to the cosine of the angle of rotation and is arranged with inputs angularly spaced 180 and supplied from the push-pull amplifier I1I in phase opposition. The contact 2I1 therefore taps ad a voltage which is conducted through a lead 2I8 and that corresponds to the signal impressed by amplifier I1I multiplied by the function cos c. 
 The shaft 5I, manually rotated in proportion to the angle 5, is mechanically connected to a shaft 2 I 2 supplying the second input for differential 208 whose output shaft 209 is rotated in accordance with the algebraic difference of the input rotations. Shaft 209 turns a contact arm 2 on the voltage divider I65 which, like voltage divider I64, has a resistance wound according to a cosine function. The push-pull amplifi-er I12 impresses out-of-phase voltages across the balanced inputs of the voltage divider I65. A lead 2I9 attached to the contact arm 2| I conducts a potential away from voltage divider I 65 that is equal to the impressed voltage multiplied by the factor cos (-a) In the operation of the structure of Fig. 11, double throw switches 22I to 225 are provided to facilitate interconnection between the circuits which introduce the various functions. When these switches are thrown to the right, as illustrated, computer 41 is adapted to constitute Equation 13, and when the switches are thrown r to the left Equation 14 is formulated. 
 The operation is discussed with connections as illustrated, and the operation in the other switching position will then be evident particularly in view of the structural symmetry of the system. A source 226 of alternating voltage having a positive reference phase is. connected through the switch 22I to the lead 2I5 which impresses the potential upon voltage divider I51. The buffer amplifier I66 transfers the potential onv the contact arm I91 to the input of the voltage divider I59. The amplifier I68 responds to the, potential on contact arm 202 and sup lies this voltage over a lead 221 to the switch 225. This potential has undergone two multiplications and is proportional to the factor n sin A;(kA+a)n sin /g(kA-a) which is employed by computer 51 in the calculation of the distance 1'. Lead 221 is thereforeconnected through switch 225 to the lead 58 running to computer 51. 
 Lead 221 is also connected through bothswitches 225 and 224. to lead 214 which supplies the input voltage for voltage divider I56. The output of voltage divider I56 is impressed through amplifier I12 upon voltage divider I65. The potential from the contact 2-II of voltage divider I;65 is conveyed by the lead 2I9, through, switch 223 to a lead 228 which suppliesv one of the inputs for the sum amplifier; I 16. The voltage thus produced is proportional to, the signal on lead; 221 
 multiplied by the action of voltage, dividers I56 amplifier I16 is correspondingly small. 
 21 and I65 and is, therefore, proportional to the factor Lead 2 I4 is also connected to the amplifier I14 which provides a potential for voltage divider I63. The output of this voltage divider is fed through switch 222 to a lead 229 comprising a second input for the sum amplifier I16. The potential impressed through lead 229 is, it seems evident, proportional to the factor +11. sin /2(Ic.4+a)n sin (IcA-a.)n sin ks A potential source 23I having a negative phase is connected through the switch 224 to the lead 2I3, which supplies this potential to the voltage divider I55. The signal on the contact arm I65 is impressed through the bufier amplifier I1I upon the voltage divider I64. The output lead M3 from the contact arm 2I1 of voltage divider I64 is connected through switch 223 to a lead 232 which comprises a portion of an input circuit of a sum amplifier I15. 
 The lead 2I3 also introduces the voltage from source 23! through the buffer amplifier I13 to the voltage divider I62. The contact arm I89 of voltage divider I52 is connected through the switch 222 to a lead 233 comprising a second portion of the input circuit of the sum amplifier I15. 
 It will be observed that the voltage on lead 232 is proportional to n sin cos 4M, and the voltage on lead 233 is proportional to n sin ICA- The sum amplifier I15 acts to add these factors together and supplies their sum through the switch 22! to the lead 2I6. A lead 234, an extension of lead 2I6, is connected through the switch 225 to the lead 59 and thus provides computer 51 with the factor -{n sin kA+n sin 0. cos qia} The lead 215 also supplies this signal to voltage divider I58 whose contact arm I99 is connected to the amplifier I61. The voltage divider I6I is energized by the output of amplifier I61, and its contact arm 204 provides a potential which is transferred by amplifier I69 to a lead 235. The lead 235 is connected through switches 225 and 222 to a lead 235, which supplies a third input circuit in the sum amplifier I16. The voltage on, lead 236 is proportional to the factor The sum amplifier I16 is adapted to add vectorially its three input signals and to supply their resultant to a phase sensitive amplifier 231 which actuates motor I11 in a direction and at a speed proportional to the signal derived by amplifier I16. Since the three factors applied in the form of voltages to amplifier I16 comprise the lefthand portion of Equation 13, the output of this amplifier is reduced to zero only when this equation is satisfied. 
 Motor I11 alters the attenuations introduced by voltage dividers I64 and I65 until the assumed value for (15a is made correct, at which moment the voltage controlling the motor I11 drops to zero. The sensitivity of the servo device must be great to provide high accuracy in the angle 45a, and the amplification factor of amplifier 231 is preferably very high in order to provide the motor I11 with a control voltage when the solution is very nearly attained and the output of sum Itls to; 
 22 be observed that all computation of 4 is made on a null basis; consequently the accuracy of the calculation is insensitive to changes in source voltage. 
Discussion of Figs. 5-8 
 It has been shown that computer 41 operates to solve either Equation 13 or 14 which equations have the more general form: 
where U, V, and W are determined by ks, ICE, 0., and b which are constants for a particular point in space and for a given group of radio stations. An understandin of the characteristics of this equation is an extremely helpful aid to the intelligent supervision of the calculating and con trol system. Mathematically this equation a1- ways has two solutions which may define any one of three physical conditions. The two values of as that satisfy Equation 8 may correspond to one physical position of the craft and a physically impossible position, to a common physical position, or to two physically distinct positions. These three possible conditions are illustrated by Figs. 6, '1, and 3, which comprise modified polar plots of the sum of the factors on the left side of Equation 8 as a function of the assumed angle a. The graphs 6, 1, and 8 are drawn to the same scale, and they define craft positions P, P, and P", respectively, shown in Fig. 5 relative to the stations 0, A, and B. The sum of the factors on the left side of Equation 8 is of course proportional to the error signal applied to the servo device I11 and may be symbolized by the term c. 
 In Figs. 6, '7, and 8, a dashed circle 24I of arbitrary size defines points of zero error signal. Assumed values of @542. are measured angularly around centers 242 of circles 2M in a clockwise direction. The error corresponding to a particular assumed angle is measured along a radius vector from its point of intersection with the zero error circle 24I. Positive errors are placed outside this circle and negative within. Mathematical solutions of Equation 8 occur at values of a where the error signal curves intersect with the zero error circles 24I, as indicated by reference numerals 243 to 241. This method of plotting the operational characteristics of computer 61 combines the continuity of angles inherent in polar coordinates with the graphical representation of polarity so convenient in rectangular coordinates. 
 In Fig. 6 the intersection 243 corresponds to a solution for the angle ca at the position P in Fig. 5. Another solution at point 244 corresponds to a position which is at a negative distance from the point 0 and therefore physically impossible. 
 It is observed that the error signal e in the neighborhood of the solution 243 increases with increasing angle, whereas the error signal in the neighborhood of the solution 244 decreases with increase in the assumed angle 4m. The servo system, dependent upon the phasing of the phase sensitive amplifier 231 or of the gearing driven