Impulse correlation function generator 
US-3208065-A
Itt
1965-09-21
https://patents.google.com/patent/US3208065A/en
Sept. 2l, 1965 F. s. GUTLEBER ETAL 3,208,065 
IMPULSE CORRELATION FUNCTION GENERATOR INVENTORS. 
 FRANK s, csf/neas@ BY @oaf/ers. afl/ey AGENT sept. 21, 1965 F. S. GUTLEBER ETAL IMPULSECORRELATION FUNCTION GENERATOR Filed July 24, 1965 Tm 9 ELEMENTS' 5 Sheets-Sheet 2 OUTPUT OF avr-GRA ma o /f 6 our/ur oF @mman/arm OUTPUT OF /N T E GRA; TOR 
 OUTPUT OF /NTEGRATOR O our/207 0F /NrEGRA TOR OUTPUT UF 1 7@ /NrscRAro/Q .alu 
INVENTORS. 
FRANK s. 6071635@ BY @055m- 5. BAA/ EY AGENT Sept. 21, 1965 F. s. GUTLEBER ETAL 3,208,065 
IMPULSE CORRELATION FUNCTION GENERATOR Filed July 24, 196s 5 sheets-sheet s New. .$50 
sept. 21, 1965 F. S. GUTLEBER ETAL IMPULSE CORRELATION FUNCTION GENERATOR Filed July 24, 1963 5 Sheets-Sheet 4 FRANK s. aangaf/z BY Raaf/ar s, ,sA/EY AGENT Sept. 21, 1965 F. s. GUTLEBER ETAL 3,208,065 
IMPULSE CORRELATION FUNCTION GENERATOR 5 Sheets-Sheet 5 Filed July 24, 1965 United States Patent O 3,208,065 IMPULSE CORRELATIN FUNCTIGN GENERATR Frank S. Gutleber, Wayne, NJ., and Robert S. Bailey, 
Concord, Mass., assignors to International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation, Nutley, NJ., a corporation of Maryland Filed July 24, 1963, Ser. No. 297,291 26 Claims. (Cl. 343-17.1) 
 This invention relates to pulse signaling systems and more particularly to pulse signaling systems which utilize correlation techniques to provide an impulse function. 
 The term impulse function as used herein refers to a waveform, having no lobes, that is, a Waveform having a single high peak indicative of a rellection from a distant target, completely free from spurious peaks of lower amplitude elsewhere in the waveform. 
 Correlation techniques have been widely utilized in the prior art in signal processing systems which utilize signals in the form of a pulse or sequence of pulses. Such techniques are most often utilized in radar systems to enhance the resolving power of the radar between closely spaced targets and, particularly when wide pulse widths are utilized to increase the average power transmitted by the radar. Usually, the reflected signal is processed by obtaining the product of code elements of the received signal and code elements of a locally generated waveform of the same waveform and period as the transmitted signal and integrating the resultant product. The ideal Output from such a correlation would be a single peak of high amplitude which has a width substantially narrower than the pulse width of the transmitted pulse. Since this ideal waveform has been obtained only with great difficulty by special coding of the transmitted pulse, most systems in use today provide outputs having spurious peaks in addition to the desired high amplitude peak which indicates a target, for increase. The presence of the spurious peaks is undesirable in that the resolving power of the radar is aiected with respect to targets which are relatively closely spaced. 
 It is, therefore, an object of this invention to provide a pulse signaling system which has increased resolving power. 
 Another object is to provide a pulse signaling system which utilizes correlation techniques to eliminate spurious peaks or lobes in an output waveform. 
 A further object is to provide correlation apparatus which is capable of providing an idealized output, i.e. a waveform having a single peak which is representative of a distant target. 
 Yet another object is to provide a system, which in combination with a given code, is more eillcient than prior art systems for the same peak transmitted power. 
 A feature of this invention is the utilization of correlation means in conjunction with means for applying at least two coded pulses of different character to the correlation means to provide an output which is equal to zero except when the output results from the registration of one of the coded pulses with itself. 
 Another feature of this invention is the utilization of correlation apparatus in conjunction with means for applying at least two coded pulses of different character to the correlation apparatus to provide correlated outputs, at least one of which is equal to zero, except when the correlated outputs result from the registration of one of the coded pulses with itself. 
 Another feature is the utilization of means for correlating the outputs of the correlation apparatus to provide an output which is equal to zero except when the outputs of the correlation apparatus result from the registration of one of the coded pulses with itself. 
 3,208,065 Patented Sept. 21, 1965 ICC  A further feature of this invention is the utilization of pulse generators one of which generates a pulse having a coding of one character and another of which generates a pulse having a coding of diilerent character. Transmitting and receiving means are provided to transmit one of the coded pulses and receive a reflection thereof. After reception, the reflected pulse is correlated with a delayed replica of the transmitted pulse and another correlation is carried out between the coded pulse of dierent character and the reilected pulse. The resulting outputs are then correlated to produce an output which is equal to zero except where coincidence of the reflected pulse and one of the generated pulses occurs. 
 The above-mentioned and other objects and features of this invention will become more apparent by reference to the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which: 
 FIG. l is a schematic diagram, in block form, of a pulse signaling system which provides an impulse function in accordance with the invention; 
 FIG. 2 shows the coding of the pulses generated by the pulse generators of FIG. l and that of the received reflected coded pulse; 
 FIGS. 3a, 3b, 3c, 3d, and 3e show the relationship, at different delay times, between the elements of the received reflected coded pulse and the coded outputs of the pulse generators of FIG. l. The multiplier outputs for each time interval are shown and the values of the integrator outputs of each correlator channel during the selected time interval are also shown; 
 FIGS. 4a, 4b, 4c, 4d, and 4e show a code which is more efficient than that shown in FIGS. 2 and 3. The relationship, at selected time intervals, between reflected code elements and the outputs of the pulse generators of FIG. 1, is also shown; and 
 FIG. 5 is a block diagram of a pulse generator which is capable of generating coded pulses similar to those shown in FIG. 2. 
 Referring now to FIG. l, there is shown a pulse signaling system 1 such as a pulse radar system; which incorporates a correlator shown generally at 2 within the dashed lines. A pulse generator 3 which generates a coded output pulse in response to a trigger pulse 4 from a pulse source (not shown) is coupled to a transmitter 5 which applies the coded pulse to antenna 6, from which the coded pulse is directively radiated. Trigger pulse 4 is simultaneously applied to a delay device 7 which may be a xed or variable delay line if it is desired to introduce a delay between the initiation of a coded pulse from generator 3 and the initiation of a coded pulse from another pulse generator 8. In certain examples provided hereinafter, a fixed delay D has been utilized, but such a delay is not necessary to achieve an impulse function in accordance with this invention as will be seen from another example. A second pulse generator 8, triggered by pulse 4, provides at its output a coded pulse which, as will be seen hereafter, is different in character from the coded pulse generator by pulse generator 3. The coded pulses from pulse generators 3 and S are applied to correlator 2 in addition to a reilected replica of the transmitted pulse from pulse generator 3. The reflected replica is received by antenna 6', shown separately from antenna 6 for convenience; is processed in a receiver 9, in a manner well known to those skilled in the art, and fed to correlator 2 for further processing. 
 Correlator 2 consists principally of two identical correlation channels made `up of multipliers 10 and 10', respectively, and integrators 11 and 11', respectively. Multiplier 10 feeds integrator 11 and multiplier 10' feeds integrator 11. Multipliers 10 and 10 are both fed simultaneously with the reflected replica of the transmitted coded pulse from receiver 9. Multipliers 10 and 10 are also supplied with coded pulses from pulse generators 3 and 8, respectively. The coded output pulse of pulse generator 3 will hereinafter be referred to as S1; the coded output pulse of pulse generator S will be referred to as S2, and the reflected replica of the transmitted output of generator 3 will be referred to as S3. Thus, multiplier 10 is supplied with coded pulses S1 and S3, and multiplier 10 is supplied with coded pulses S2 and S3. To permit a comparison of the various elements of the coded pulses from one pulse to the next, a variable delay 12 introduces the same given delay on coded pulses S1 and S2. By varying the delays introduced, it is possible to obtain a registration of coded pulse S1 with the reflected replica S3. At this condition of registration, it is desired to have a maximum output, while for all other conditions of nonregistration, a zero output is desired. Thus, if delay line 12 introduces various delays r, the condition of registration of 7:0 will produce a maximum output, and for all other Ts, the output will be equal to zero. 
 FIG. 2 shows the coding of coded pulses S1, S2, and S3. It should be obvious that the coding of pulses S1 and S3 is identical since S3 is a reflected replica of the transmitted pulse S1. S1 is an arbitrary code, the code elements 13 of which are generated by pulse generator 3 of FIG. l. S2 is a code which causes one of the correlated outputs of integrators 11, 11 to be equal to zero except when there is coincidence between the corresponding elements 13 of the S1 and S3 pulses. Each element 13 is also representative of the incremental delay introduced on successive S1 and S2 pulses, so that, in effect, each of these pulses scans pulse S3, element by element. An appropriate amount of delay is, of course, provided by delay line 12 which takes into account the maximum useful range of the radar. The code elements 13 are designated -f-, or 0. These symbols are, respectively, representative of signals which have a phase of 180 and an absence of any signal whatsoever. The appropriately phased signals or no signal at all are provided by pulse generators 3 and 8, an embodiment of which will be described hereinafter in Connection with FIG. 5. The code elements 13 of S2, in some instances in FIG. 2 have numerals such as 2, +8, +30 which are different from the simple -i, 0 arrangement of the S1, S3 pulses. The numerals refer to the amplitudes of the particular code elements 13. The amplitude differences in pulse S2 result from the fact that once the value of a code element 13 has been determined for a given delay, it remains in the code for S2. When the next incremental delay is introduced, the value for the preceding code element determines, along with the values of all the other code elements, what value must be ascribed to the present code element to cause, where necessary, the output of a correlator channel to be zero. The foregoing statement will become clearer in connection with the following discussion of FIG. 3. 
 FIG. 3a shows the relationship of the elements of coded pulses S1, S2 and S3 when a time delay rm=9 elements has been introduced between the time of application of coded S1 and S3 to multiplier 10 and the time of application of coded pulses S2 and S3 to multiplier 10. The delay D1 was introduced between the initiation of coded pulses S1 and S2 because in determining the characteristics of the elements of coded pulse S2, it was found that there was no necessity for starting code S2 until 6 code elements were correlated since the correlation between coded pulses S1 and S3 over this period provided a zero output. As will be recalled, a zero output is the desired output except where coincidence of the corresponding elements of S1 and S3 is obtained. For another arbitrary coded pulse S1, the delay D1 might be greater or less and would have no effect on the general technique being taught by this invention. 
 Returning now to FIGS. 3a, the products of the individual code elements 13 of coded pulses S1 and S3 are shown following the symbol 213. The products are obtained utilizing the usual algebraic method of multiplication. The summation of the products, using the algebraic method of addition, is shown having the value 6. This value is the output of integrator 11. Since the summation of the products has a value other than zero, another output must be provided which will give a value of zero when the outputs are again cross-correlated. The zero value is obtained by providing a Coded pulse S2 which forces the value of zero to occur. In FIG. 3a, the necessary portion of coded pulse S2, the first ve elements of coded pulse S2 as shown in FIG. 2, is shown following the symbol S2. The products of the individual code elelrnents 13 of coded pulses S2 and S3 are shown fol-lowing the symbol 223. The summation of the products, indicated as the output of integrator 11', is shown to be zero. The outputs of integrators 11 and 11 are then applied, as shown in FIG. l, to cross-correlator 14 which consists of a multiplier 15 and integrator 16. The output of integrator 16, in accordance with the teachings of this invention, should be zero for all values of Tm, except 1m=0. In FIG. 3a, the cross-correlated output of integrator 16 will be zero since one of the inputs equalled zero. It should be appreciated that for all values of rm greater than 9, that the output of at least one of integrators 11 and 11 was equal to zero. 
 Referring now to FIG. 3b, the relationship of the coded pulses S1, S2 and S3 is shown when the delay 'rm is equal to four elements. By obtaining the products of the elements and summing as described in connection with FIG. 3a, it is seen that the summation E13, the output of integrator 11, is equal to zero and the summation E23, the output of integrator 11', has a value of eight (8). Cornparison of the integrator outputs of FIG, 3a with the integrator outputs of FIG. 3b shows that in FIG. 3a, 223 is equal to Zero while in FIG. 3b, 213 is equal to zero. When such a condition occurs, it is clear that there is no necessity to force an output to zero utilizing the pulsed code S2. Thus, S2 could have any value for the nal code element when rm=4, but it is shown as 3 because such a value contributes to the simplification of the ultimately obtained code. In the instance of rm=4, the zero output occurred from the multiplication of the elements of pulsed code S1 with the elements of the reflected pulsed code S3. In the remaining examples it will be seen that an output results from the multiplication of the elements of S1 and S3 in accordance with the general trend when each delay position was tested. The fact that, at best, only one-quarter of the delay portions provided a zero output for an S1, S3 multiplication is an indication of the difficulty inherent in generating a code which will provide zero outputs for all delays except vm=0 when only a `single cross-correlation channel is utilized. 
 In FIG. 3c, the condition of 1m=0 is shown. Pulsed codes S1 and S3 are in coincidence, that is, the corresponding code elements 13 of each code are in registry. 1m=0 is the condition where a maximum output is desired providing for an unambiguous detection of a target and high resolving power for closely spaced targets. rThis latter advantage is obtained, as has been mentioned previously, by eliminating spurious lobes which resulted from imperfect correlation. The output of the integrators 11 and 11 in FIG. 3c is a value other than zero and represents a high amplitude pulse K of much narrower width than the initially transmitted pulse. 
 FIGS. 3d and 3e show the element by element correlation of the coded pulses S1, S2 and S3 when rm is equal to -3 and l2 elements, respectively. The minus sign merely indicates that the multiplications and summations are being taken at a time after -rm=0 has been tested. In FIGS. 3d and 3e, it is necessary to force a zero by utilizing the pulsed code S2. The subsequent cross-correlation of the outputs of integrators 11, 11 in correlator 14 produces a zero output. 
 From the foregoing it is lseen that a code can be generated which, in conjunction with the circuit of FIG. l, will produce an impulse function, that is, a signal completely free from spurious lobes. The code S2 generated by pulse generator 8 is, however, rather lengthy and the circuitry required for the generation of such a function is rather complicated. Such complex codes are not necessary as will be seen from the simpler and more efficient code to be described in connection with FIGS. 4a, b, c, d, and e. 
 FIG. 4a shows a coded pulse S1 which is to be transmitted by and processed in the circuitry of FIG. l. It should be noted that S1 contains only eight code elements 13. FIG. 4b shows a coded pulse S2, which when correlated with a reflected replica S3 of transmitted pulse S1 provides a maximum output at 'rm-:0 and zero output for all other Tms. The code S2, in the same manner as shown in connection with FIG. 3, forces a zero output Where the correlation of S1 and S3 does not provide a zero output. Codes such as shown in FIGS. 4a and 4b are inherently more efficient than the codes shown in FIG. 2 because of the closer match in the code structure between S2 and S2. Optimum detection occurs with an exact match which by itself, usually results in spurious lobes. With the proper mismatch between S2 and S3, the lobes are completely suppressed with some sacrifice in the detection efficiency. In the examples of FIG. 4 the resultant detection capability is 3 db poorer than the theoretical optimum. However, an output signal-to-noise ratio 4.8 db greater than that of a single pulse whose width was equal to one code digit length is obtained, while at the same time realizing a resolution capability equal to the single pulse case. Also, the resulting code structure was determined with comparative ease and the technique of this invention allows much more flexibility and simplicity in the choices for the basic code bit building blocks. It should also be mentioned that once a target position is established, the output of integrator 16 may be monitored providing an optimum output signal-tomoise ratio. In essence, the system provides optimum detection simultaneously with a separate high resolution output. 
 FIGS. 4c, 4d, 4e show the cross-correlation of coded pulses S1, S2 and S3 at delay times of 'rm=4, 0, 2, respectively utilizing the higher efficiency coded pulses of FIGS. 4a and 4b. The cross-correlating takes place in the same manner as described in connection with FIG. 3. It should be noted in these example-s that the-re is no delay D introduced between signals S1 and S3. Both of these signals are applied simultaneously to multipliers 10, without affecting the desired result in any way. 
 Referring again to FIG. l, pulse generators 3 and 8 supply the coded pulses S1 and S2. An larrangement for generating codes which can be used in accordance with this invention is shown in FIG. 5. 
 One possible method of implementing the codes is shown in FIGURE 5. A carrier from reference oscillator 17 is split into two phases of 0 and 180 in phase Shifters 18, 18. The phase shifted outputs are then fed through separate amplifiers 19 and 19 to normally closed gates 20 and 20 which are actuated at appropriate times from gate signals from tapped delay line 21 and pulse generator 22. All the outputs from gates 20 and 20 are then linearly summed in linear resistive adders 23 and 23 to provide a resultant coded signal S1 or S2 whose individual code bits may have an assigned amplitude level of from K1 to Kn and a code phase angle of either 0 or 180. Zero code levels are provided by the absence of a gate signal during that code bit interval. The gating signals are obtained by means of a standard pulse generator which feeds a tapped delay line. Each output tap on the delay line is then applied to its appropriate normally closed (NC) gate in the composite coder, only one output appearing on one line during each code bit interval f. 
 Referring again to FIG. l, multipliers 10, 10' and 15 may be any mixer or phase detector well known to those skilled in the art. For example, the multiplier or equivalently, the phase detector may be a subtractive diode type whose output is proportional to the cosine of the phase 6 difference between two input signals. Integrators 11, 11 and 16 may be RC networks well known to those skilled in the art. In short, any circuit which will perform the functions described may be utilized Without departing from the spirit of this invention. 
 While we have described above the principles of our invention in connection with specific apparatus, it is to be clearly understood that this description is made only by way of example and not as a limitation to the scope of our invention as set forth in the objects thereof and in the accompanying claims. 
We claim: 
 1. An impulse correlation function generator comprismg: 
first means to produce at least two sequences of coded pulses each having a different characteristic and a replica of a selected one of said sequences of coded pulses; and correlation means coupled to said first means responsive to said two sequences of coded pulses and said replica of :said selected one of said sequences of coded pulses to produce an impulse output only at the time of coincidence of said selected one of said sequences of coded pulses and said replica of said selected one of said sequences of coded pulses and a zero -output at all other times. 
2. A generator according to claim 1, further including a delay means coupled between said first means and said correlation means to vary the time of arrival of said two sequences of coded pulses at said correlation means. 
 3. A generator according to claim 1, wherein said correlation means includes a first correlation channel responsive to said selected one of said sequences of coded pulses and said replica of said selected one of said sequences of coded pulses to provide therefrom a first correlated output, at least a second correlation channel responsive to the other of said sequences of coded pulses and said replica of said selected one of said sequences of coded pulses to provide therefrom a second correlated output, at least one of said first and second correlated outputs being equal to zero at said all other times and both of :said first and second correlated outputs being an impulse output at said time of coincidence, and 
second means coupled to said first and second correlation channels for correlating said first and second correlated outputs to produce an impulse output at said time of coincidence and a zero output at said all other times. 
 4. A generator according to claim 3, wherein said correlation means further includes a delay means coupled to an input of said first and second correlation channels and said first means to vary the time of arrival of said two sequences of coded pulses at said input of said first and second correlation channels. 
 5. A generator according to claim 3, wherein said first correlation channel, said second correlation channel and said second means each include a multiplier 4and an integrator coupled in series relationship to said multiplier. 
 6. A generator according to claim 5, wherein said correlation means further includes a delay means coupled to an input of said multiplier of both said first and second correlation channels and said first means to vary the time of arrival of said two sequences of coded pulses at the input of said multiplier of both said first and second correlation channels. 
 7. An impulse correlation function generator compri-sing: 
first means to produce at least two sequences of coded pulses each having a different characteristic; 
second means coupled to said first means responsive to a selected one of said sequences of coded pulses to produce a replica of said selected one of said sequences -of coded pulses; 
correlation means coupled to said second means; and 
third means coupled between said first means and lsaid correlation means to couple said two sequences of coded pulses to said correlation means to produce an impulse output only at the time of coincidence of said selected one of said sequences of coded pulses and said replica of said selected one of said coded pulses and a zero output at all other times. 
 8. A generator according to claim 7, wherein said third means includes a delay means to vary the time of arrival of said two sequences of coded pulses at said correlation means. 
 9. A generator according to claim 7, wherein said correlation means includes a first correlation channel responsive to said selected one of said sequences of coded pulses and said replica of said selected one of :said sequences of coded pulses to provide therefrom a first correlated output, at least a second correlation channel responsive to the other of said sequences of coded pulses and said replica of said selected one of said sequence-s of coded pulses to provide therefrom a second correlated output, at least one of said first and second correlated outputs being equal to zero at said all other times and both of said first and second correlated output-s being an impulse output at said time of coincidence, and 
fourth means coupled to said first and second correlation channels for correlating said first and second correlated outputs to produce an impulse output at said time of coincidence and a zero output at said all other timers. 
 10. A generator according to claim 9, wherein said first correlation channel, said second correlation channel and said fourth means each include a multiplier and an integrator coupled in series relationship to said multiplier. 
 11. A generator according to claim 10, wherein said third means includes a delay means coupled to an input of said multiplier of both said first and second correlation channels to vary the time of arrival of said two sequences of coded pulses at said input of said multiplier of both said first and second correlation channels. 
 12. A generator according to claim 7, wherein said correlation means includes a first multiplier coupled to :said first means and said second means to multiply said selected one of said sequences of coded pulses and said replica of said selected one of said sequences of coded pulse-s, 
a first integrator coupled to said first multiplier to produce a first correlated output, 
a second multiplier coupled to said first means and saidsecond means to multiply the other of said sequences of coded pulses and said replica of said selected one of said sequences of coded pulses, 
a second integrator coupled to said second multiplier to produce a second correlated output, 
at lea-st one of said first and second correlated outputs being equal to zero at said all other times and both of said first and second correlated outputs being an impulse output at said time of coincidence, 
a third multiplier coupled to said first and second integrators to multiply said first and second correlated outputs, and 
a third integrator coupled to said third multiplier to produce an impulse output at said time of coincidence and a zero output at said all other times. 
13. An impulse correlation function -generator comprising: 
first means to generate a first sequence of coded pulses having a given characteristic; 
a second means for generating a second sequence of coded pulses having a characteristic different than said given characteristic; 
third means coupled to one of said first and second means to provide `a replica of one of said first and second sequences of coded pulses; 
correlation means coupled -to said first means; and 
fourth means coupled -between said first and second means and said correlation means to couple said first and second sequences of coded pulses to said correlation means to produce an impulse output only at the time of coincidence of said one of said sequences of coded pulses and said replica of said one of said sequences of coded pulses and a zero output at all other times. 
14. A generator according to claim 13, wherein said fourth means includes a delay means to vary the time of arrival of said first and second sequences of coded pulses at said correlation means. 
15. A generator according to claim 13, wherein said correlation means includes a first correlation channel coupled to said first means and said third means to provide a first correlated output, 
`a `second correlation channel coupled to said second means and said third means to provide a second correlated output, 
at least one of said first and second correlated outputs being equal to Zero at said all other times and both of said first and second correlated outputs being an impulse output at said time of coincidence, and 
fifth means coupled to said first and second correlation channels for correlating said first and second correlated outputs to produce an impulse output at said time of coincidence and a zero output at said all other times. 
16. A generator according to claim 15, wherein said fourth means includes a delay means coupled to said first and second means and the inputs of said first and second correlation channels to vary the time of arrival of said first and second sequences of coded pulses at the inputs of `Said first and second correlation channels. 
17. A generator according to cl-aim 13, wherein said correlation means includes a first multiplier coupled to said first means and said third means to multiply said first sequence of coded pulses and said replica of said one of said first and second sequences of coded pulses, 
a first integrator coupled to said first multiplier to produce a first correlated output, 
a second multiplier coupled to said second means and said third means to 4multiply said second sequence of coded pulses and said replica of said one of said first and second sequences of coded pulses, 
a second integrator coupled to said second multiplier to produce a second correlated output, 
at least one of said first and second correlated outputs being equal to zero at said all other times and both of said first and second correlated outputs being an impulse output at s-aid time of coincidence, 
a third multiplier coupled to said rst and second integrators to multiply said rst and second correlated outputs, and 
a third integrator coupled to said third multiplier to produce an impulse output at said time of coincidence and a zero output at said all other times. 
18. A generator according to claim 17, wherein said fourth means includes a delay means coupled to said first and second means and an input of said first and second multipliers to vary the time of arrival of said first and second sequences of coded pulses at said input of said first and second multipliers. 
19. An impulse correlation function generator comprising: 
-irst means for generating a rst sequence of coded pulses having a given characteristic; 
second means coupled to said rst means for radiantly transmitting said rst sequence of coded pulses; 
third mean-s for receiving reflections of said rst sequence of coded pulses; 
fourth means coupled to said rst means and said third means for correlating said first sequence of coded pulses and said reection of said first sequence of coded pulses to produce a first output voltage including zero; 
Afifth means for generating a second sequence of coded pulses having ya characteristic different than said given characteristic; 
sixth means coupled to said fifth means and said third means for correlating said reflection of said yirst sequence of coded pulses and said second sequence of coded pulses to produce a second output voltage including zero; and 
seventh means coupled to said fourth means Iand said sixth means for correlating said rst and second output voltages to produce an impulse output only at the time of coincidence of said rst sequence of coded pulses and said reections of said rst sequence of `said coded pulses and a zero output at all other times. 
20. A vgenerator according to claim 19, wherein said 22. A generator according to claim 19, wherein said sixth means includes a multiplier coupled vto said fifth means and said third means, and an integrator coupled to the output of said multiplier. 23. A generator according to claim 22, further including a delay means coupled to said fth means to vary the time of arrival of said second sequence of coded pulses at said multiplier. 24. A generator according to claim 19, wherein said seventh means includes a multiplier coupled to said fourth means and said sixth means, and an integrator coupled to the output of said multiplier. 2S. A generator -according to claim 19, wherein said fourth means includes a rst multiplier coupled to said rst means and said third means, and a rst integrator coupled to the output of said irst multiplier; said sixth means includes a second multiplier coupled to said fifth means and said third means, and a lsecond integrator coupled to the output of said Isecond multiplier; and said seventh means includes a third multiplier coupled to said rst and second integrators, and a third integrator coupled to the output of said third multiplier. 26. A generator Iaccording to claim 25, `further including a delay means coupled to said rst means and said ifth means to vary the time of arrival of said first sequence of coded pulses and said second sequence of coded pulses at said rst multiplier and lsaid second multiplier, respectively. 
No references cited. 
 CHESTER L. .TUSTUS, Primary Examiner.