Method and apparatus for automatically screening of electrocardiac signals 
US-3554187-A
Humetrics Corp
1971-01-12
https://patents.google.com/patent/US3554187A/en
United-States Patent [1113,554,187 
[ 72] inventors Harvey F. Glassner Primary Examiner-Wi1liam E. Kamm A Los Angeles, Calif.; Attorney-Thomas W. Brennan Clinton 0. Jorgensen, Ogden, Utah; Lee Baessl er, Manhattan Beach, Calif. 
[21] Appl. 500,122 ABSTRACT: The method of evaluating electrocardiac signals [22] Filed Oct.2l, 1965 comprising: I I 
[45] Patented Jam 12 1971 detecting electrocardiac signals compr sing cycles of suc- [73] Assignee Hume'trics cnrporation cesslve functional periods variable In both recurrency acorporation of Delaware. by meme and wave form characteristics, one of said variable peassignment riods including a QRS wave train having at least one peak: determining S-wave duration; 
[54] METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR generating a triggering signal responsive to the substan- AUTOMATICALLY SCREENING tially unfiltered detected electrocardiac signal in sub- ELECTROCARDIAC IG A stantial uniform time phase relation with the R wave 43 Claims, 25 Drawing ig peak and after a delay of S-wave duration; 
[52] US. Cl. l28/2.06 generating gating Pulses in dependency on the triggering [51] Int. Cl. A6lb /04 Signal, h of the gating pulses having a duration and 501 Field ofSearch 128/205, time Phase range for Selecting a Prescribed functional Z0 period of the detected signal; 
electrically measuring the detected electrocardiac signal [56] Referemes cued during each gating pulse to evaluate at least one prede- UNITED STATES PATENTS termmed characteristic of the related functional period; 3,123,768 3/1964 Burch et al. 128/2.06X d 3,156,235 11/1964 Jaeger 128/205 generating a distinctive output signal when said measure- 3,267,934 8/1966 Thornton l28/2.06 ment deviates from limits prescribed for each functional 3,280,817 /1966 Jorgensen etal. 128/2.05 period. 
 7 ms 07 A S-T INTERVAL DEFECT ECG $|GNAL ANAL. NETWORK INDICATOR ANALYSIS CHANNEL k T-wAvE oEFEcT 1 ANAL. NETWORK INDICATOR 101 l no in SQE TIMING T-P INTERVAL DEFECT H NETWORKS ANAL. NETWORK INDICATOR Q 1 1 lob P-WAVE DEFECT TRlGGEmNG l 104 ANAL. NETWORK INDICATOR I '1 l n4 n5 CHANNEL .CARDIAC RATE "r E I l COMPENSATOR P-R INTERVAL DEFECT i ANAL. NETWORK INDICATOR l 4 2 l l us NT CARDIAC RATE 0wAvE DEFECT ANAL. NETWORK ANAL. NETWORK INDICATOR 4 1 I25 1 1 us 119 CARDIAC RATE Res-W VE DEFECT INDICATOR ANAL. NETWORK INDICATOR 261 o- 120 21 ARRHYTHMIA R-WAVE DEFECT ANAL NETWORK E ANAL. NETWORK INDICATOR '27 i l22 123 DEFECT s-wAvE T DEFECT INDICATOR ANAL. NETWORK INDICATOR PATENTED JAN 12 I97! SHEET 03 0F 14 AGENT PAIENIEIIIIIIIzmI 3554-0187 SHEEI on or 14 ECG SIGNAL ANALYSIS ECG SIGNAL SOURCE CALIBRATION ECG LEVEL CHANNEL IQQ SELECTOR sw. I300. I CONTROL INDICATOR I I 27? FROM 2 E v 276 l 278 27 9 FROM L2H ECG SIGNAL BASELINE 280 I v ANALYSIS RESET #506 SIGNAL To ANALYsIs FROM 3 AMPLIFIER CLAMP NETWORKS Q 6 IO 8 v nauifiw FROM 5 RESET PULSE FROM 2I 6 q' IN TIMING NETWORKS I Q BASE LINE RESET ECG SIGNAL TO ANALYSIS NETWORK 305 LEVEL DETECTORS ENE/2 62%. Lli lfljl a a AMPLIFIER 215 325 RESET PULSE FROM MV. 2 
322 INVENTORS. 
 HARVEY F. GLASSNER CLINTON O. JORGENSEN [2V BY LEE R. BAESSLER AGENT PME TEnJ/mwn 3,554; 187 
" sum 05 0F 14 LEVEL DETECTOR BINARY MEMORY SYMBOL LOGIC O u 0 I SYMBOL LOGIC O 1 1: g v, v v o L. D. L- v,zv v r K v v gv, SYMBOL v v v 0 INTEGRATOR Fig/0 m SWITCHED INTEGRATOR I I E s O l V V5 o v INVENTORS. HARVEY F. GLASSNER CLINTON O. JORGENSEN BY LEE R. BAESSLER FI'gJ/ W AGENT PATENTED JAN 1 2197| SHEET 09 mi 14 ,PATENIEDJANIZIQII 3 B+ TO INDICATOR LIGHTS REQUIRING DISABLING. 
8+ Q 'l l SEVERE ARRYTHMIA DISABLING RELAY B+ TO INDICATOR LIGHTS 5 S-T S Q. 6260' DELAY B+4 B+ TO INDICATOR LIGHTS REQUIRING DISABLING. I 627 I I $6 g I ARRYTHMIA I I 626 RELAY sEvERE ARRYTHMIA ANALYS'S DRIVER OIsABLINO RELAY NETWORK I I LOGIC l O NORMAL ARRYTHMIA ARRYTHMIA OEFEcT---- 628 INDICATOR A? I SEVERE ARRYTHMIA Fig. 24 
 INVENTORS. HARVEY F. GLASSNER CLINTON O. JORGENSEN BY LEE R. BAESSNER AGENT below. 
 This invention relates to a method and apparatus for screen.- ing the heart activity of patients as indicated by recurrent electrocardiac signals representing heart activity information, and for automatically and precisely indicating one or more func-' tional periods of the heart activity in which an abnormality ocours. 
 The inventive method and apparatus are particularly useful in rapidly screening individuals as well as large numbers of patients for a variety of abnormal electrocardiac signals. Application of the method and apparatus is carried out on a real time basis in physicians offices, hospitals, clinics," schools, industries, military centers and the like, by an attendant who need not be a cardiologist. Subjects-characterized by an abnormality are however referred to a cardiologist for further examinations, diagnosis and/or treatment according to classical medical procedures. 7 
 Heretofore, it has been general practice to detect electrocardiac signals from the surface of a patients skin in twelve standard lead configurations, and to amplify the signals and recordthem, as for example, on a strip chart recorder the record of which includes superimposed timing marks. A physician specially trained in cardiology then visually examines the record and evaluates the wave form characteristics of each recurrent cycle of every lead configuration recorded. This means does not lend itself to rapid screening of large numbers of individuals'as will become apparent from the description The electrocardiac signals from each lead configuration comprises recurrentcycles of a recognized series of successive active functional periods disposed between substantially quiescent functional periods which together define a cardiac cycle. These recurrent cycles vary both in recurrency and wave form characteristics from patient to patient as well as within many individuals while the electrocardiac signal is being recorded. The active functional periods areconventionally identified as the P, Q, R, S and T-wave intervals; the substantially quiescent functional periods, as the P-R segment which follows the P-wave interval, the S-T segment which lies between the S-wave and'the T-wave intervals, and the T-P interval which lies between the T-wave interval and the succeeding P-wave interval. The combined P-wave and P- -R segment functional periods are customarily identified as the PR interval. The R --R period is generally referred to for cyclic identification purposes. H 
 Detection of abnormal electrocardiacsignals by current procedures'is a difficult and time consumingtask. It requires concentrated and protracted attention on the part of the 1 physician to visually examine massive amounts of recorded details and their interactions with respect to the aforementioned functional periods. For example, the recording of each lead configuration is evaluated according to clinical standards for defects in wave amplitude, duration" and polarity, intervals of essentially no activity, elevations and depressions of channel. The triggering and timing channel includes precise timing networks for sequentially selecting portions of a car diac cycle representing the aforesaid functional periods and which are automatically compensated when variations in cardiac rate occur. The analysis channel includes a base line reset clamper for restoring the DC base line to a precise reference level each cycle. It further includes electrocardiac signal analysis networks responsive to the timing networks for selectively measuring predetermined characteristics of each of the functional periods. Cardiac rate and arrhythmia are continuously measured but are dependent on the triggering and timing channel for initiation. Output signals are generated when each measurement deviates from prescribed electrical standards representative of clinical standards. For convenience, the output signals are utilized'to provide digital indications of normal and abnormal ECG. signals and are observable by an attendant who need not be acardiologist. Most of the indications are disabled when a severe arrhythmia condition is encountered to prevent false indications of defects. 
 It is therefore an object of this invention to provide a method and apparatus for rapidly screening the heart activity of patients on areal time basis as indicated by electrocardiac signals representing heart activity information. 
 Another object of this invention is to provide a method and apparatus for automatically and precisely indicating one or more functional periods of a patient's heart activity in which an abnormality occurs. 5 
 Still another object of this invention is to provide a method and apparatus for selectively measuring electrocardiac signals to indicate abnormalities in a patient and for automatically adjusting the selection timing according to cardiac rate. 
 Yet another object of this invention is to provide a method and apparatus for the keying of selected measurements of electrocardiacsignals to the R-wave, or to the S-wave when the R-wave is defective, while maintaining a uniform time phase relation of the selected measurements. 
 It is still another object of this invention to provide a method and apparatus for screening electrocardiac signals to provide definitive information about heart activity to an atteridant who need not be a cardiologist. 
 Another object of this invention is to provide for a method and apparatus for the disabling of a definitive heart activity signal responsive to a predetermined arrhythmia of a cyclic 'electrocardiac signal. 
Still another object of this invention isto provide for portable, relatively inexpensive, analogue-digital apparatus operanection with the accompanying drawings in which: 
specific segments of the base line; and intracycle and intercy- V cle timing including cardiac rate and arrhythmia, and other features of the signals. This practice is so demanding that even highly skilled physicians sometimes err because of fatigue, their misinterpretation of the recording, or the influential effeet a patients case history may have upon them. While every effortis made'to avoid such errors, results of the evaluation vary and at times are not always precise with regard to kind and degree of abnormality evidenced by the recording. It is therefore understandable why rapid screening of large numbers of patients by this means is not only impractical but almost prohibitive when considering the amount of time and proportionate expenses involved. 
 Inthe practice of the present invention the electrocardiac signals are also detected from multiple sources and amplified in a conventional manner. However, each source is selected for individual processing on a real time basis generally by FIG. 1 is a simplified block diagram of the entire system. 
 FIG. 2 is a block diagram of the electrocardiac signal source and the triggering portion of the triggering and timing channel. 
 FIG. 3 shows in block diagram .form the timing networks and cardiac rate compensator. 
FIG. 4 shows circuitry for the cardiac rate compensator of I FIG. 3. 
means of a triggering and timing channel and a signal analysis work. 
FIG. is a block diagram of the P-wave analysis network. 
 FIG. 16 is a block diagram of the PR interval analysis network. 
FIG. 17 is a block diagram of the Q-wave analysis network. 
 FIG. 18 is a block diagram of the combined R and S wave analysis network. 
FIG. 19 is a block diagram of the R-wave analysis network. 
FIG. 20 is a block diagram of the S-wave analysis network. 
 FIG. 21 is a block diagram of the cardiac rate analysis network. 
FIG. 22 shows circuitry for a typical defect indicator light. 
 FIGS. 23-1 and 23-2 show representative wave forms of the system. 
 FIG. 24 shows a block diagram of arrhythmia analysis network. 
OPERATIONAL CONFIGURATION The operational configuration of apparatus for carrying out the present invention is shown in FIG. 1. Electrocardiac (ECG.) signals are derived by source 101 from electrodes placed on a patients skin surface in four standard lead configurations, these being only representative of the 12 standard lead arrangements commonly employed in electrocardiography. Signals from each lead configuration are separately amplified and then filtered. Signals from one lead configurations are generally selected for further processing through both the triggering and timing channel 102 and the ECG. signal analysis channel 105. Occasionally, the ECG. signal character is such that it is either not suitable or desirable for triggering purposes in addition to analysis purposes. In these instances, and ECG. signal from a second lead source is selected by an attendant only for timing purposes. 
 The ECG. signal selected in source 101 is received by the triggering and timing channel 102 where it is amplified and adjusted to a predetermined level. The resulting signal is then processed to detect and indicate the presence and prescribed levels of the R-wave and the S-wave. The R-wave is preferred for initial triggering purposes although when it is defective the S-wave is automatically selected for this purpose by the presence indicator. The ECG. signal is further processed through a phase splitter which provides separate R-wave and S-wave signal sources. The signals from each of these sources are then differentiated and base clipped to sharpen the signal and one is automatically selected for driving a Schmitt trigger. Under R-wave mode of operation, the Schmitt trigger output initiates an R-wave delay multivibrator having S-wave endurance which normally supplies the basic triggering pulse to the timing networks described below. When the S-wave is automatically selected, the R-wave delay multivibrator is bypassed and the Schmitt trigger output supplies the basic triggering pulse so as to maintain essentially a uniform time phase relation of the triggering pulse regardless of whether the R-wave or the S-wave does the initiating. 
 The triggering and timing channel 102 is substantially frequency insensitive in that the triggering pulses are derived from the substantially unfiltered electrocardiac signal. The terms substantially frequency insensitive and substantially unfiltered," as hereinafter used, are not intended to exclude the band pass limitations of the equipment nor the recurrence rate of the electrocardiac signal. The terms denote merely that the triggering pulses are derived from the electrocardiac waveform and not from a waveform made to to differ significantly or substantially from the electrocardiac signal by means of the removal of substantial frequency components. 
 Timing networks 103 receives the triggering pulse from channel 102. These networks generate successive timing pulses which individually, and combined through logic networks, produce a sequence of gating pulses. The gating pulses are identified with a successive ECG. functional period and are used in controlling analysis networks for evaluating the signal during a respective functional period. Some additional gating pulses are generated within analysis networks in dependency on the triggering and other pulses and together complete the sequence of gating pulses required for the selective analysis and evaluation of each cardiac cycle. Timing networks 103 also generates a reset pulse in dependency on the trigger pulse prior to the end of the cardiac cycle for use in the analysis networks as described below. 
 Cardiac rate compensator 104 receives signals from the timing networks 103 and supplies control voltages to timing components therein. This action maintains the selective time sequencing for the cyclic subdivision of the electrocardiac signals into functional periods in conformity with the durations of the functional periods as they depend on cardiac rate. Thus, the output signals from the timing networks 103 are adapted to control the duration and time phase ranges in which the analysis networks respond to the gating pulses for evaluation of the electrocardiac signals. 
 The electrocardiac signal selected from source 101 is also directly applied to ECG. signal analysis channel 105. This channel amplifies the ECG. signal by means of a differential DC amplifier to a prescribed level set through adjustment of a calibration control and read on an indicator by an attendant. The amplified signal is coupled through a baseline clamper to the wave analysis networks described below. The baseline clamper operates responsive to the reset pulse to restore the DC baseline of the ECG. signal to a ground reference potential. Because of this action, precise wave analysis may proceed from the same reference level at the beginning of each cardiac cycle evaluated. 
 It has been discovered that only a number of the many known wave characteristics of the ECG. signal need be evaluated to provide reliable definitive information about cardiac abnormalities. This is advantageous for screening purposes and is effected through evaluation of the ECG. signals by a plurality of analysis networks having analogue-digital signal discriminating circuits generally selectively responsive to the aforementioned gating pulses. The analysis networks provide binary output signals which for design convenience drive corresponding digital defect indicators. Table l below lists the ECG. functional periods and wave parameters evaluated according to the present invention. The table also suggests which of the four representative ECG. lead sources are utilized for measurement purposes for each parameter evaluated. This is so designated by an X in the appropriate column. Otherwise, the defect indicators not involved in evaluation of a particular lead are disabled to prevent erroneous indications, this being designated by a bar or space in the appropriate column. 
TABLE I ECG wave parameter ECG lead ECG functional period evaluated measured I III VI VI S-T segment Normal amplitude X X X X Elevated amp1itude X X X X Depressed amplitude. X X X X Twave interval Absent X X Normal amplitude X X Excessive amplitude X X X X Diminished amplitude X X Negative polarity X X T-P interval Normal amplitude X X X X Eairpessive positive polar- X X X X y. Egtcessive negative polar- X X X X y. Excessive positive and X X X X Negative Polarity P wave interval Absent X Normal amplitude X Excessive amplitude X X X X Negative polarity X P-B Interval Normal duration X X X Excessive duration X X X Diminished duration. X X X Q wave portion of QRS Normal amplitude and X X X complex. duration. 
Excessive amplitude X X X Excessive duration X X X Excessive amplitude and X X X duration. 
TABLE l-Continucd ECG wave parameter ECG lead ECG iunctional period evaluated measured V I in v. VI 
It plus S wave portion of Nonnai duration X X X X QRS complex. A Y Excessive R-wave dura- X X X X on. Excessive S-wavc dura- X X X X it. Excessive it plus S wave X X X X I or duration. 
a wave portion at QRS Normelamplitudc x x x complex. Excessive amplitude.... X X X X Diminished amplitude.. X X X S wave portion of QRS Normal amplitude X complex. 1 
. Excessive amplitude.... X X X X Diminishedamplitude-. X 
R to R wave interval..-.. Normal rate X X X X High rate x x ,x x Low rate X X X X Cyclic rhythm... Severe arrhythmia 8-1! X X X X wave. 
 The S -T interval analysis networks 106 includes level detectors receiving the analogue output signal from ECG. signal analysis channel 105 and operating against preselected DC reference voltages representative of clinical standards for the wave amplitude parameters listed in table I. When the ECG. signals differ from the reference voltages, these detectors feed binary signals to NAND gates which are controlled by the S- T gating pulse supplied by timing networks 103. The NAND gates become activeonly under prescribed logic conditions and during the. S-T segment to pass combinations of digital signals to previously reset binary memories. These memories produce binary output signals which drive defect indicator 107 where indicator lights are read in binary logic terms to indicate the normal and abnormal ECG. wave amplitude characteristics listed in table I. The binary memories are reset each cycle by the reset pulse generated in the timing networks 103 so that a new indication is provided for each cardiac cycle. lndicating lights in defect indicator 107 are disabled during severe arrhythmia by a signal from arrhythmia analysis network 126. 
 T-wave analysis network 108, T-P interval analysis network 110 and P-wave analysis network 112 are constructed and operate in a manner similar to the S-T segment analysis network 106 described above. They differ in that their level detectors operate against their own preselected reference voltages and the NAND gates operate only during their respective gating pulses supplied by the timing networks 103. in addition to ECG. wave amplitude, wave polarity is indicated on their respective defect indicators 109, 111, and 
 multivibrators which endure for periods representative of clinical standards for the wave duration parameters listed in table I. A control signal from cardiac, rate analysis network 124 is applied to a range switch which modifies the duration of the second multivibrator below a prescribed cardiac rate. A second NAND gate receives pulses in prescribed logic combinations from the first NAND gate, the delay multivibrators, the P-wave gating and other pulse sources in the timing networks 103 and a QRS gating pulse source, such that in effect it lights disabled in response to improper lead selection and severe arrhythmia conditions as previously described above. 
 For design convenience, the QRS gating pulse source is made a part of the P-R interval analysis network 114 and includes level detectors operating against preselected DC reference voltages for detecting the onset of the Q-wave and the positive R-wave.yWhen the ECG. signal differs from the reference voltages these detectors feed binary signals to another NAND gate. The output of this gate is supplied to still other NAND gates which become operative in response to a prescribed logic combination of pulses from the P-R interval analysis network binary memories and other sources and ultimately allows only the onset of the Q-wave to initiate operation of a triggering multivibrator. This multivibrator then applies a triggering signal to a delay multivibrator which endures for a period representative of a clinical standard for the QRS wave train duration. The delay multivibrator output supplies the QRS gating pulse to the P-R interval and subsequent analysis networks. 
 The Q-wave analysis network 116 includes both signal amplitude and duration discriminating circuits for evaluating the ECG. signal parameters listed in table I. The amplitude discriminating circuits are similar to those described above in-- volving level detectors operating against preselected reference voltages. Wave duration is detenninedby a selfclamped integrator which receives a signal from a level detector and develops a voltage proportional to time during the presence of the Q-wave. A level detector receives this voltage and operates against a preselected reference potential representing normal Q-wave duration. The binary output signals from both the amplitude and duration level detectors are fed to NAND gates. These are controlled by the QRS gating pulse referred to above for initiation and an R-wave gating pulse described below for termination of digital signals passed to previously reset binary memories. Binary output signals are produced by these memories to drive defect indicator 117 where indicating lights are read in binary logic terms to indicate the normal and abnormal ECG. wave characteristics listed in table I. The binary memories are reset each cycle and the indicator lights disabled responsive to improper lead selection and severe arrhythmia conditions as previously described above. 
 The R- and S-wave analysis network 118 includes signal duration discriminating circuits for evaluating individual and combined R- and S-wave duration according to parameters listed in table 1. The individual R-wave and S-wave durations are determined in a manner entirely similar to the Q-wave duration. These circuits employ selfclamped time integrators operates as the'P-R interval gating pulse source and is dependent on the triggering signal mentioned above. Thus, it becomes initiated upon the onset of the P-wave and terminated with the onset of the Q-wave. I 
The second NAND gate output drives another series of responsive to the presence of the respective R- and S-wave signals and the QRS gating pulse. Ultimately, they deliver digital signals to previously reset binary memories based on a previous comparison of the integrator output voltage and a reference voltage. Binary output signals are produced by the memories to drive defect indicators 119 where indicating during the'presence of both the R- and S-waves and a switching signal which controls the duration of integration. The switching signal is derived from another NAND gate which is responsive to the QRS gating pulse and an R-wave gating pulse. The switched integrator output is received by a level detector operating against a preselected reference voltage representing the combined R- and S-wave duration. This detector feeds a binary signal to NAND gates which ultimately drive the individual R- and S-w'ave binary memories and their corresponding indicator lights in defect indicator 119 simultaneously to provide an indication of combined excessive R- and S-wave duration. 
 The R-wave gating pulse is developed in the R- and S-waves analysis network 118 by a binary memory set by the R-wave onset and reset by the previously described reset signal. A complementary R-wave gating pulse is also supplied to the Q- wave and S-wave analysis networks 116 and 122, respectively for logic purposes. 
, effect of modifying certain gating'pulses as will be described hereinafter. 
 R-wave analysis network 120 and S-wave analysis network 122 include amplitude discriminating circuits for evaluating ECG. signal parameters as listed in table I. These networks are constructed and operate in a manner similar to the ST segment analysis network 106 described above. They differ in that their level detectors operate against their own preselected reference voltages and their NAND gatesoperate only during the QRS gating pulse generated in the P-R interval analysis network 114. TheECG. wave amplitudeparameters listed in table I are indicatedon defect indicators 121 and 123, respectively. The indicator lights are disabled during improper ECG. lead selection and severe arrhythmia conditions as previously described. The R-wave'analysis network binary memories are reset directly by the reset pulse previously mentioned. The S- wave analysis network binary memories are reset by a logic combination of the R-wave-gating pulse and the reset pulse referred to above.- 
Cardiac rate analysis network 124 includes amplitude discriminating circuits for evaluating cardiac rate parameters .tor 125 where indicator lights are also read in binary logic terms to indicate the normal and abnormal cardiac rate characteristics listed in Table I. The binary memories are reset each cycle by the reset pulse generated in the timing networks 103 so that a new indication is provided for each cardiac cycle. The indicating lights are disabled during severe arrhythmia by a signal from arrhythmia analysis network 126 to prevent erroneousindications. 
 Arrhythmia analysis networks 126 includes a conventional arrhythmia detector which receives an initiating pulse from timing networks 103 in synchronism with the triggering pulse supplied by channel 102. In this instance, the arrhythmia detector is adjusted to respond to a severe condition of arrhythmia in the electrocardiac signal selected for timing purposes. An output signal drives defect indicator 127 in addition to other means for disabling the indicator lights in other defect indicators. 
ECG. SIGNAL SOURCE The electrocardiac (ECG) signal source 101 is shown in more detail in FIG. 2. Although only four representative standard lead configurations are shown in this FlG., i.e., Leads 1, III, V, and V the present invention contemplates employing V the l2 standard leads analyzed in conventional electrocardiography as well as the more recent vectorcardiographic lead configurations in the analysis of the ECG. signals. The utilization of all signal leads and the indication of their normal and abnormal characteristics follows the examples disclosed herein. Moreover, the vectorcardiographic lead indications are accomplished in an entirely similar manner but follow scalar representations of the (additional) dimensional information on heart activity. Table l defines the ECG. signal parameters that are evaluatedv herein and the relative importance of the lead configurations in each instance. 
 More particularly, the ECG. signal from lead I, electrodes 128 is derived by placing in a standard skin surface configuration a positive electrode on a patients left arm a negative electrode on his right arm and a ground electrode on his right leg. The signal from electrodes 128 is conducted to the'input of differential preamplifier 129. This preamplifier incorporates preset controls including a bandwidth control for passing signals in the frequency range of from about 0.2 to about 350 cycles per second, and a gain adjustment for providing a calibrated amplification for the ECG. signals. Signal output from preamplifier 129 is delivered to lead selector switch 130 and conducted to a terminal on switch section 1300 bearing this lead identification. l tis then supplied to both the triggering and timing channel 102 and the ECG. signal analysis channel for further processing. 
 The approximate form of alead l, normal ECG. signal is shown in (FIG; 23.1)A where the wave forms and functional periods of analysis for all leads are identified. The R-wave is referenced throughout this disclosure as a basis for generating timing signals as we'll as measuring intraand intercycle timing purposes. On occasions, the R-waveis .too weak for precise selection for generating timing signals so the S-wave is automatically selected for triggering as willfbe described below. Other types of abnormalities prevalent in the-ECG. signal of this lead configuration include variations in amplitude and timing of the P-wave, Q-wave, R- and S-waves individually and combined, the QRS wave train; amplitude of the ST segment; amplitude and polarity of the P-wave, T-wave and T-P interval, especially the latters isoelectric line, cardiac rate, and changes in cardiac rate known as arrhythmia. The particular ECG. signal parameters evaluated are of course listed in table I. However, these parameters, plus others; vary individually and in combinations, within and betweenpatients, and at various ages and specific times of examinations, thus making precise evaluation of these signals extremely difficult by visual methods. The method and apparatus of thc-present invention substantially overcomes this problem as will be realized from the disclosure below. 
 The ECG. signals from lead Ill electrodes 131, lead V, electrodes 133 and lead V electrodes 135 are also derived from standard skin surface configurations. In the lead III arrange' ment a negative electrode is placed on a patients left arm, a positive electrode on his left leg and a ground electrode on his right leg. In the lead V, arrangement, electrodes are placed on the patients left arm, right arm and left leg and each are conducted through 5k ohm resistors to a commonnegative electrode terminal, a positive electrode is placed at the level of the fourth intercostal space to the right of the sternum, and a ground electrode placed on his right leg. The leadV arrangement is the same as lead V,, except that the positive electrode is placed at the level of the fifth intercostal space in the anteri or axillary line. 
 Signals from electrode configurations 131, 133 and 135 are conducted to the respective inputs or differential pream plifiers 132, !134, and 136. These are identical to preamplifier 128 including their presettings of bandwidth and gain controls. Their outputs are also delivered to lead selector switch and are conducted to respective positions on switch section 130a. 
 An approximate normal ECG. signal form for lead lll signal is shown in FIG. 238, for lead V in FIG. 23C, and for lead V in FIG. 23D. Variations and abnormalities are much the same as described above in connection with lead 1 signal form shown in FIG. 23A. It will be observed that lead V R-wave amplitude in FIG. 23Dfar exceeds that of the equivalent signal in the other leads. This distinction will be utilized as noted immediately below. 
 Ordinarily the same ECG. signal is supplied ECG. analysis channel 105 directly and the triggering and timing channel 102 through triggering selector switch 141 when it is in its N or normal position. However, in situations where the ECG. signal under evaluation has an R-wave that is inverted, or is too weak, or is otherwise undesirable for triggering purposes, switch 141 is moved to the V position where a strong R-wave signal usually is prevalent for triggering purposes. If this is not desired the triggering and timing channel 102 will automatically select the S-wave for triggering purposes without loss in time phase relation to the signals in the other functional periods as is disclosed below. 
The analysis of selected signal parameters is more important in certain lead configurations than in others. In fact, it actually TRIGGERINGAND TIMING CHANNEL The triggering and timing channel 102 develops a triggering pulseand is shown further in connection with FIG. 2. Any one of the ECG. signals selected for this purpose is received at the input of triggering and timing amplifier 142 from the common connection of triggering selector switch 141. A predetermined output signal level is required for further signal processing, this level beingadjusted by an attendant using gain control 143 while observing triggering level indicator 144. Each time a different signal lead is selected by either of switches 130 or 141, the output level is checked and adjusted if necessary. 
 The output from triggering and timing amplifier 142 is supplied to the positive R-wave detector 145 and then to the S- wave detector 146. The outputs from these detectors are fed to the R- and S-wave presence indicator 147 where it is automatically determined and indicated each cardiac cycle which of the two waves, i.e. the R-wave, arrived first and will subsequently be used in another branch circuit for initiating the timing networks 103. v 
 Specifically, the R-wave detector 145 receives the output. from amplifier 142 at the input of ECG. signal amplifier 148 where it is first attenuated to a prescribed level, then amplified using a fixed gain. This signal is then fed to a base clipper 149 suitable biased for R-wave detection. Its output approximates the form shown in FIG." 23E, a series of pulses 10 appearing at the cardiac repetition rate. The pulses 10 are adjusted to a standardized R-wave amplitude for wave selection purposes and activate Schmitt trigger 150 which generates a short synchronizing pulse 11 as shown in FIG. 23F. The trailing edge of pulse 11 triggers delay multivibrator 151 having complementary outputs and an input inhibited against subsequent triggering pulses while in its unstable, or timing state, the triggering occurring in constant time phase relation with the R- wave. Consequently, multivibrator 151 produces pulse 12 shown=in FIG. 236 which is selected for convenience to endure until about the termination of the T-wave so that subsequent signals from' the Schmitt trigger 150 will be ineffective until after a selection between the R-' and S-waves has been made. 
 The R- and S-wave presence indicator 147 receives the negative-going form of pulse 12 at the input of AND logic network where it is joined by signal from'bistable memory 157 which is assumed to be in state for R-wave indication. Pulse 12 to both the pass andactivate binary memory 157 at; its set input. This causes indicator 158, to become illuminated presence of the R-wave to an attendant. 
 S-wave detector 146 is constructed and operated'much' the same as R-wave detector 145. It receives the ECG. signal from the output of R-wave amplifier 148 at the input of emitter-follower 159. This inverted signal is applied to the-S-wave ECG. signal amplifier where it is first attenuated toa prescribed level, then amplified using a fixed gain so that its output signal will be equal in amplitude, but opposite in polarity; to that from amplifier 148. This signal isthen fed to a base clipper 161 suitably biased at a lower level for S-wave detection. lts output approximates the form shown in FIG. 23H, a series of pulses 13 appearing at the cardiac repetition rate. The pulses 13 are adjusted to a standardized S-wave amplitude for wave selection purposes and activate Schmitt trigger 162- which generates a short synchronizing pulse 14 as shown in FIG; 23]. The trailing edge of pulse 14 triggers delay multivibrator 163 which is identical to multivibrator 151. The triggeringoccurs in constant time phase relation with the Swave and produces pulse l5'shown in FIG.23K which lags behindpulse 12 by a substantial number of milliseconds. 
 The negative going form of pulse 15 is received at the input of AND logic network where it is joined by a similar signal from bistable memory l57'which is assumed to have been set in the-S-wave state as appears above. Pulse 15 then passes on to OR logic network l53-where its passage is inhibited while pulse 12 from ANDlogic network l52iis present. If the R- waves were not present, OR logic network 153 would allow pulse 15 to pass on to amplifier 154 which joins gate clamp 155. The positive-goingoutput pulse 15 from-multivibrator 163 isfed to gate 165 which receives a control signal from gate clamp 155 and allows the pulse to pass and activate binary memory at its reset input. This causes indicator 166 to become illuminated signifying to an attendantthe presence of the S-wave and the absence of a positive R-wave. At the same time, a signal is sent to relay 167 which causes it to change from its normal R position'to its S position for the duration of pulse 15, thereby automatically selecting the S-wave for utilization if the R-wave is defective as appears immediately below. 
 Still referring to FIG. 2, the triggering and timing amplifier 142 output signal is also'delivered through a parallel branch circuit to phase splitter 168 where two separate signal sources are derived. The first of these is fed to the R-wave differentiator and base clipper 169, the second to the S-wave differentiator and base clipper 170. The ECG. signal in each'of these is signifying the first differentiated and assumes the approximate wave form 16 shown in FIG. 23L. Each signal is then base clipped'and sharfrom 169 and 170 are delivered to correspondingly identified tenninals on relay contact structure 167a. 
I From the common connection on relay contact structure 167a the shaped signal-is'fed to both the triggering level in dicator 144 previously mentioned and the Schmitt trigger 171 The latter generates a short synchronizing pulse similar to pulse 11 shown in FIG. 23F, when relay 167 selects the output from R-wave differentiator'and base clipper 169. Alternately, it generates a pulse-similar to pulse 14 shown in FIG."23J when relay 167 selects the output from the S-wave dilferentiator and base clipper 170. It will be observed that the-trailing edges of these pulses coincide with the approximate peak inthe R- wave and Swave, respectively. 
. Assuming R-wave mode of operation, this being preferred, the output pulse 11 from Schmitt trigger 171 is directed to the