Computer utilizing random pulse trains 
US-3612845-A
Reed C Lawlor
1971-10-12
https://patents.google.com/patent/US3612845A/en
United States Patent [72] Inventor Reed C. Lawlor 412 West Sixth St., Los Angeles, Calif. 90014 [21] Appl. No. 742,619 [22] Filed July 5,1968 [45] Patented Oct. 12, 1971 [54] COMPUTER UTILIZING RANDOM PULSE TRAINS 17 Claims, 4 Drawing Figs. 
[52] US. Cl 235/156, 331/78, 235/150.3 [51] Int. Cl G06! 7/50, G06f 7/52 [50] Field of Search 235/152, 156, 150.3; 328/157, 158, 159, 160; 307/220; 331/78 [56] References Cited UNITED STATES PATENTS 2,607,896 8/1952 Chambers 331/78 X 3,217,148 11/1965 Robinson 235/152 X 3,283,131 11/1966 Carbrey..... 235/164 3,427,478 2/1969 Etter 331/78 L i ZAA/OQ/W 67 F5" @WGE BAA/00M P06 56 66/1/66 1 70E 666/? Wei; 
 EA/VDUM P0455 GGA/Em 70/6 07" Primary Examiner-Malcolm A. Morrison Assistant Examiner-James F. Gottman ABSTRACT: Noise signals from a diode and clock pulses from a clock pulse source are fed to input legs of a logic circuit such as an AND gate, causing pulses of variable amplitude to appear in the output of the circuit. A threshold circuit suppresses pulses having amplitudes below a predetermined level. The remaining pulses trigger a univibrator thus causing pulses to be generated at random times in synchronism with clock pulses thereby forming a train of synchronous random pulses. Trains of random pulses from several such random pulse generators are fed to logic circuits to perform arithmetic operations, such as multiplication. 
COMPUTER UTILIZING RANDOM PULSE TRAINS This invention relates to a computing system which utilizes trains of randomly occurring pulses to represent numbers that are to be processed mathematically. 
 This invention makes use of a plurality of random pulse generators together with means for processing pulses from the various generators to produce a signal that has an average frequency that bears a predetermined mathematical relation to the average frequencies of pulses from the respective random pulse generators. 
 Each random pulse generator generates pulses at an average rate, or frequency, proportional to the number to be processed. The pulses are produced by the combined action of pulse source and a noise source which generates a noise signal of variable amplitude. The number represented by a train of pulses generated by a random pulse generator is varied by applying range selection, or control, signals to the random pulse generator so that only noise signals having amplitudes in a predetermined range combine with pulses from the pulse source to produce pulses at the output. 
 In the best embodiment of the invention a clock pulse source is employed for generating randomly occurring synchronous pulses, that is pulses that occur only at predetermined times. In this invention several such random pulse generators are controlled by a single clock pulse source, so that whatever pulses are generated in the respective random pulse generators occur only at such predetermined times. 
 The average rate at which the pulses are generated in the input trains of pulses may be measured by means of a pulse rate meter or they may be determined by counting the number of pulses that occur in a predetermined time interval. The same applies to the output train of pulses. 
 To produce a train of randomly occurring pulses, electrical pulses from a clock pulse source and electric signals of variable amplitude from a noise source are applied to input legs of an AND gate. With this arrangement the signals appear in the output of the AND gate only in synchronism with the clock pulses. Their respective amplitudes however depend upon the magnitudes of the noise signals that are applied to the input of the AND gate simultaneously with the clock pulses. Amplitudes of the pulses appearing in the output thus vary over a wide range. In this invention a range selector circuit is employed to suppress all pulses except those occurring in a predetermined amplitude range. Since the amplitudes occur randomly, this then means that the selected pulses occur randomly in time. These randomly occurring pulses are fed to a single shot multivibrator, sometimes called a univibrator, in order to produce a sequence of randomly occurring pulses of uniform amplitude and shape. 
 Various types of mathematical operations can be performed with such trains of randomly occurring pulses. For example by applying two trains of such random pulse generators to input legs of an AND gate, an output train of randomly occurring pulses is produced. The average frequency of the output train of pulses is proportional to the product of the average frequencies of the two input trains of pulses. Likewise by applying two trains of randomly occurring pulses to the input legs of an OR gate, an output train of randomly occurring pulses can be produced which has an average frequency that is proportional to the sum of the average frequencies of the input trains, so long as those input signals have an average rate which is small compared with the rate of the clock pulse source. 
 The devices of this invention are particularly adapted to the processing of numbers that lie in a range between and 1, such as numbers that represent values of probability. In case it is desired to process numbers that lie outside such range, they are first normalized to bring them within that range and the average frequency of the output is corrected accordingly. 
 The foregoing and other features of the invention will be understood by reference to the following descriptions taken in connection with the accompanying drawings wherein: 
 FIG. I is a block diagram of multipliers employing this invention; 
 FIG. 2 is a more detailed block diagram of a random pulse generator employing this invention; 
 FIG. 3 is a wiring diagram of a random pulse generator embodying the invention; and 
 FIG. 4 is a block diagram of a form of the invention which produces the sum of two numbers with a high degree of accuracy. 
 In FIG. I there is shown a multiplier in which pulses occurring randomly at predetermined times are employed to accomplish the arithmetic operation of multiplication. A common clock pulse source CLP is employed to cause pulses to appear at the outputs OT, OT, and OT' of three random pulse generators RPG', RPG", and RP only at times when pulses are being generated by the clock pulse source. Each of the random pulse generators RPG, RPG", and RPG' has associated therewith a range selector RS, RS", and RS respectively for causing the pulses to appear in the respective outputs OT, OT", and OT' at average rates that are proportional to three numbers N, N", and N that are to be multiplied together. The values of the numbers N, N", and N', may be varied by adjusting the range selectors RS, RS", and RS!!!. 
 The three trains of pulses appearing at the outputs of the respective random pulse generators RPG', RPG", and RPG are applied to the input legs L, L", and L respectively of an AND gate AT. 
 In this case, a single pulse rate meter PRM is arranged to be selectively connectable to the output of any of the random pulse generators and the multiplying AND gate. 
 When the pulse rate meter PRM is connected to the output of any of these units, it indicates the average rate of which pulses occur in the train of pulses appearing in the output of that unit. If desired four separate pulse rate meters may be employed to facilitate simultaneous measurement of the average pulse rates in the four pulse trains. 
 The pulse rate meter PRM may be in the form of a pulse counter of a well-known kind which counts the total number of pulses applied thereto during a predetermined time interval. The number of pulses counted, divided by the time interval is the average pulse rate over that interval. Alternatively, the pulse rate meter may be of a kind which employs an RC circuit to produce a DC signal representative of the average rate of application of pulses thereto over a time interval of the order of the time constant RC. In either event, the accuracy of the average rate increases with the value of the time interval or with the value of the time constant RC as the case may be. 
 The system illustrated in FIG. 1 is particularly suitable for use where the pulse rate meter PRM is in the form of a counter which counts the total number of pulses supplied thereto in a predetermined time interval. In such a device the accuracy of the output does not depend upon uniformity of the amplitude and duration of the pulses in the pulse trains generated by the random pulse generators RPG', RPG, and RPG'. However, pulse rate meters may be employed. The accuracy of such meters depends upon the uniformity of the size and shape of the pulses. Where the pulses are of uniform size and shape, a single RC pulse rate meter may be employed. If the pulses vary in size or shape or both, a multivibrator is included within the pulse rate meter to convert each incoming pulse into a pulse of standard size and shape. 
 Such a pulse rate meter PRM of the RC type includes a univibrator U, an RC circuit RCC, and a milliammeter MM. The univibrator U is triggered by a pulse applied to its input to produce a pulse of unifon-n amplitude and duration at its output. Such pulses are applied to the RC circuit RCC to develop a current in its output which is proportional to the average frequency of the pulses. This current is measured by the milliammeter MM to indicate the average frequency of occurrence of pulses applied to the input of the pulse rate meter PRM. 
 It can be shown that the average pulse rate in the Output of the AND gate AT is the arithmetic product of the average rate at which pulses are applied to the three input legs of the AND gate. Thus, the circuit described performs the arithmetic operation of multiplication. 
 By way of further explanation, let average frequency of occurrence of pulses in the output of the first random pulse generator RPG' be R. Similarly, let the average frequency of occurrence of pulses in the output of the second random pulse generator RlPG" be R". Likewise, let the average frequency of occurrence of pulses in the output of the third random pulse generator RPG be R'. Then if R is the average frequency of pulses appearing in the output of the AND gate we have The value of each frequency R, R, R, and R is expressed as a decimal fraction of the frequency F of pulses supplied by the clock pulse source. Thus, for example, if R 0.80F, R"=0.60F, and R"=0.50F, then R=0.24F. 
 A more detailed showing of a random pulse generator is represented in FIG. 2. The operation of this random pulse generator is explained with reference to a series of time-coordinated graphs Gll to G9. in these graphs, ordinates represent signal amplitude and abscissa represents time, later times appearing on the graphs to the right of earlier times. 
 This random pulse generator employs a clock pulse source CLP which supplies electrical pulses of uniform size and shape at uniform intervals. The nature of the pulses supplied by the random clock pulse source CLP is represented in graph Gll. Each of the pulses is a square wave" having a duration t small compared with the period P elapsed between the inception of successive pulses. The particular clock pulse source was one which produces square waves at a frequency (F) of about 5,000 pulses per second. Pulses occurred at intervals of about 200 asec. Each of the pulses had a magnitude of about 10 volts and a duration less than about 20 psec. These values could be adjusted as needed. 
 In this random pulse generator an original random noise source ONS is employed to aid in the generation of a train of randomly occurring pulses, Such a random noise source may be in the form of a vacuum tube, a semiconductor diode, or a noisy amplifier. In the best embodiment of the invention the original noise source ONS produces a noisy signal that contains components of random amplitude and random frequency. Described differently, the amplitude of the output of the noise source varies rapidly in a random manner. The noise may be white" over a broad band of frequencies that includes the frequency of the clock pulse source CLP. 
 The signal appearing in the original noise source ONS may be unidirectional or bidirectional, depending upon the exact nature of the circuitry. A noise signal from a noise source has been represented in graph G2. ln this graph as in others, amplitudes represent voltage. Where the signal is bidirectional voltage is indicated by the heavy base line BL. But where the signal is unidirectional, 0 voltage is represented by the dashed base line BL that lies to one side of the graph. 
 in this form of the invention the signals from the original noise source ONS are transmitted through an electric filter FR of the broad band-pass type. The transmission band of this filter includes frequencies corresponding to the frequency of occurrence of the clock pulses CLP. The filter FR attenuates signals of very low frequency compared with the frequency of the clock pulse source CLP. It also attenuates signals of very high frequencies so as to remove a large portion of any pulses or spikes that have a duration that is short compared with the duration t of the pulses supplied by the clock pulse source. The output of the filter PR is somewhat smoother than the output of the random noise source RNS as indicated by graph G3. Where the signal is bidirectional, a full-wave rectifier RK may be employed in order to assure that there shall be no extended intervals of silence. The output of such a full-wave rectifier is represented in graph G4. in practice, as will appear hereinafter, the filter FR may be a high pass filter and a fullwave rectifier RK need not be employed. More particularly no such rectifier is needed if the noise has components that have frequencies that cover a band that includes frequencies of the order of the clock frequency, both below and above clock frequency. The original noise source, the filter, the rectifier (if any), and also any amplifier present here constitute a random noise source RNS. 
 The random noise from the random noise source RNS is applied to one leg L111 of an AND gate A1 and pulses from the clock pulse source CLP are applied to another leg L12 of that AND gate. The amplitude of the signals from the clock pulse source is equal to the full amplitude range of the AND gate. The signals from the random noise source are of variable amplitude. As a result, a first train of discrete pulses of variable amplitude is generated in the output of the AND gate Al. These pulses all have the same duration I but their amplitudes are random as indicated in graph G5. 
 In the system shown, a threshold circuit TH is employed to selectively eliminate pulses having an amplitude below a predetermined level L. This level is made adjustable by manipulation of the range selector RS. By virtue of the action of the threshold circuit, a reduced number of the pulses appear in the output thereof, forming a second train of pulses. However, these pulses are also of variable amplitude as indicated in graph G6. These pulses are supplied to a univibrator, sometimes called a single shot multivibrator, UV. Each time a pulse above a very low threshold is applied to its input, the univibrator UV produces at its output a pulse of predetermined amplitude and predetermined duration. The train of pulses appearing in the output of the univibrator UV constitutes a third train which may be further processed. 
 The pulses generated by the univibrator UV have a duration greater than the duration t of the pulses from the clock pulse CL? and they occur at a time that overlaps the occurrence of the clock pulses. in the circuit shown this overlap is obtained by the use of a delay multivibrator that delays the output of the univibrator by a time slightly less than the period T. However as will appear hereinafter such delay is not always necessary. 
 Pulses from the clock pulse source and pulses from the univibrator UV are applied to input legs L21 and L22 of another pulse shaping AND gate A2 in order to produce a random series of pulses of standard amplitude and having a duration 1 equal to that of the pulses from the clock pulse source CLP. The output of the AND gate A2 is applied to a pulse rate meter PRMR to measure the average frequency of occurrence of pulses in the pulse train appearing there. 
 Pulses that occur at a complimentary rate are produced by feeding the output of the AND gate A2 through an inhibitor H to one leg of an auxiliary AND gate CA while applying pulses from the clock pulse source CLP to another leg of that AND gate. In this case pulses appear at the output of the complimenting AND gate CA as indicated in graph G9, only when pulses do not appear in the output of the AND gate A2. The value of the compliment is indicated by means of a pulse rate meter PRMZ. The sum of the two rates indicated by the two pulse rate meters PRMll and PRMZ is constant and is equal to 1.0 where the frequency of pulses generated by the clock pulse source CLP is assigned a value of 1.0. 
 A detailed schematic diagram of parts of a circuit employed in the practice of this invention is illustrated in FIG. 3. This circuit includes a random noise source RNS, a clock pulse source CLP, and AND gate Al, and a threshold control circuit TH. The random noise source RNS includes an original noise source ONS, an amplifier AM including a filter FR, and a noise signal attenuator AT. The noise source ONS, the filter FR, the clock pulse source CLP, the AND gate Al, and the threshold control circuit TH correspond to units of the same names in FIG. 3. No full-wave rectifier RK is employed. 
 The original noise source ONS includes a diode O] which supplies noise through a capacitor C1 to an amplifier A the output of which is supplied through an attenuator AT to the input leg L11 1 of the AND gate Al. Pulses from the clock pulse source CLP are applied to the other input leg L12 of the AND gate. The output of the AND gate is applied to the threshold circuit TH which produces at its output pulses that are supplied to a univibrator UV. 
 This circuit has three voltage terminals G, V,, and V Voltages of 0, -10, and volts respectively are supplied to voltage terminals GR, V,, and V from a regulated voltage supply (not shown). 
 The original noise source CNS is in the form of a diode 01 which is formed between the emitter e, and the collector cl of a transistor of the 2Nl07 type. The diode is connected in the forward direction through a ballast resistor R1 of 22 kilohms to voltage terminal V The diode is overloaded, drawing a current of about 1 milliampere, causing the voltage across the diode to be very noisy. The amplifier AM has two amplifying stages comprising transistors Q2 and Q3 respectively. The input transistor Q2 was of type 2NI 124 while the output transistor Q3 was of type 2N35. Noise originating in the transistor O1 is transmitted through a capacitor C1 of 0.01 pf. to the base b2 of an input transistor Q2 of the amplifier AM. 
 The base b2 is connected to the voltage terminal V through a resistor R2 having a value of 4.7 megohms. The emitter and collector of the input transistor Q2 are connected to ground GR and to the voltages terminal V, respectively through resistors R3 and R4 having values of 100 ohms and 18,000 ohms respectively. An amplified noise signal appearing at the collector c2 is applied through a coupling capacitor C2 to the base b3 of the output transistor Q3. This base b3 is connected to ground GR through a resistor R5 having a value of 1 megohm. The collector and emitter of the output transistor 03 are connected to the negative terminal V and to ground through resistors of R6 and R7 of 1,000 ohms and 12,000 ohms respectively. 
 With this circuit a random noise signal is produced at the output of the amplifier AM having a minimum amplitude of 0 volt and a maximum amplitude of about 10 volts. The amplitude of this signal varies between 0 and 10 volts in a random manner somewhat as indicated in graph G2 of FIG. 3 with an offset base line BL. 
 The signal appearing at the collector of the noise diode O1 is unidirectional in character. Transmission of this signal through the capacitor C1 and the various stages of the amplifier AM causes the signal to pass through bidirectional and unidirectional conditions alternately. But this change of condition of the signal is not detrimental, since ultimately the signal appearing at the contact MK of the attenuator, or volume control AT has the desired noisy character and includes a wide range of frequency components, including components having frequencies on both sides of the frequency of the signal supplied by the clock pulse source CLP. The signal appearing at the output of the amplifier AM is applied through a capacitor C3 of 0.00lp.f. to a 15,000 ohm volume control AT which acts as an attenuator. 
 The various circuit elements of the amplifier and attenuator circuit act as a band-pass filter, preventing noise components shape very low frequency and very high frequency from reaching the output of the amplifier AM. Low frequency components of the noise were attenuated in part by means of the high pass filter FR provided by the capacitor C3 and resistor R5. The filtering out of high frequency components is provided by the inherent characteristics of the circuit. For this reason, no special provisions need be made to eliminate the very high-frequency components of the noise. 
 The AND gate A1 is of a simple two-leg diode type. It employs two diodes D1 and D2 having their cathodes connected through a 100,000-ohm resistor R11 to the voltage terminal V and their anodes respectively connected to ground GR through 30,000-ohm resistors R8 and R9 respectively. The junction between the anode of diode D1 and resistor R8 is connected through a capacitor C5 to the clock pulse source CLP. The junction between the anode of diode D2 and resistor R9 is connected through a capacitor C6 to the movable contact MK of the attenuator AT. The two capacitors C5 and C6 may have values of capacitance of 0. 1 pf. each. 
 The threshold control circuit utilizes an input transistor Q4, a threshold-sensitive amplifying transistor 05, and an output transistor Q6. Both the input and output transistors Q4 and Q6 are connected as emitter followers. The transistors 04, Q5, and 06 are all of the type known as 2N24l A. 
 Signals appearing at the output of the AND gate A1 are applied to the base of the emitter-follower transistor Q4, being reproduced across the emitter resistor R12. The signal appearing across this resistor is applied to the base of the amplifying transistor Q5. The cathode C5 of this resistor 05 is connected to a 15,000-0hm resistor R13 to the voltage terminal V, 
 The collectors of the input and output transistors 04 and 06 are connected to the terminal V,. The emitter e5 of the transistor 05 is connected to a sliding contact SK of a 500- ohm potentiometer PT, one end of which is connected to ground through 270-ohm resistor R14 and the other end of which is connected to the second voltage terminal V, through a l ,500-ohm resistor R15. The collector of the transistor 05 is connected through a speedup or lead circuit SP to the base of the output transistor Q6. The leas circuit comprises a resistor of 180 kilohms connected in parallel with a p f. capacitor. The emitter of the output transistor O6 is connected to ground through a 1,800-ohm resistor R1. With the particular resistance values of resistors R14, R15, and the particular resistance value of the potentiometer PT, the pulse rate of the train of random pulses appearing at the output of the threshold circuit TH could be varied from 0 to 1.0. These pulses are applied through a coupling capacitor C8 of 0.0027 pf. to a single shot multivibrator of the type that responds with delay to the incoming signals. The univibrator produces pulses having a duration somewhat longer than those generated by the clock pulse source but still short compared with 200 p.sec., the period P of the clock pulses. With this circuit, pulses appear at the output of the univibrator UV simultaneously with the appearance of pulses at the output of the threshold circuits. In order to produce accurate multiplication with a clock pulse source of such low frequency, a pulse rate meter was employed which had a time constant of the order of seconds. 
 The potentiometer PT may be calibrated by means of a scale SCA opposite the pointer SK in terms of the average rate at which pulses appear at the output OT of the AND gate A]. 
 In practice the values of the resistors R14 and R15 were established at values suitable for making the pulse rate of the random pulse generator of FIG. 3 a linear function of the position of the pointer SK on a linear scale. In particular, the values were so selected that when the pointer SK was at one end of the potentiometer the reading of the scale SCA was I00 and at the other end it was 0. For this purpose a linear potentiometer PT is employed and the values of the resistors R14 and R15 are adjusted to give correct readings at two intermediate points of the scale. In this way, linearity is attained with a high degree of accuracy throughout a wide range. 
 Alternatively, the average rate at which pulses appear at the output of a random pulse generator RPG may be indicated by a pulse rate meter connected to the output such as the pulse rate meter PRMl of FIG. 2. 
 The circuit shown in FIG. 3 constitutes a random pulse generator RPG of a type that may be employed in the multiplier of FIG. 1. In the operation of FIG. 3 the signals appearing in the output of the random noise source RNS have a noisy character such as that represented by graph G3 of FIG. 2. Likewise, the pulses appearing in the output of the AND gate A1 form a first train of pulses like those represented in graph GS of FIG. 2. The train of pulses appearing in the output of the threshold circuit TI-I form a second train of pulses like that represented by graph G6 of FIG. 3. And the pulses appearing in the output of the univibrator UV of FIG. 3 correspond to those represented by graph G7 of FIG. 2. This train of pulses is employed as an input train for one of the legs of the AND gate of FIG. 1. Alternatively, trains of pulses represented in graphs G8 or G9 could be employed for this purpose. 
 When three random pulse generators, including univibrators, of the type described in connection with FIG. 4 are connected to an AND gate, accurate multiplication was achieved. 
 Through the invention has been described in detail only with respect to the operation of multiplication, it will be understood that it may be applied to other mathematical operations. Thus, for example, if two random pulse generators are connected to the input of an OR gate then the rate at which pulses appear in the output will be R=R+R2R'R". 
 So long as the values of R and R" are small, the term RR" may be neglected. But if it is large, account must be taken of this fact if accuracy is to be attained. This may be done, for example, with a circuit of the type illustrated in F116. 5. in this adding unit, the output of a first random pulse generator RPGl is fed to a leg of AND gate AGll and to a leg of an OR gate ORE and the output of a second random pulse generator RPGZ is fed to another leg of the AND gate A011 and another leg of the OR gate ORB. In this case the output of each of these gates is rectified by rectifiers RKEl and RKZ. The outputs of the two rectifiers Rllfill and RKZ are fed to a voltage adder in the proportions of two to one thus producing a signal in the output which represents the sum of the signals represented by the random pulse trains supplied by the generators RPGll and RPGZ, even when these rates are not small. 
 in the operation of the computing system described herein, the AND gate and the OR gate operate in accordance with laws of Boolean logic upon the randomly occurring pulses, thereby achieving operations of an arithmetic character with the multiplier of FIG. il. For example, the AND gate AT takes the logical product of the pulses applied to its input. Thus a pulse appears at the output only when a pulse is applied to all the input legs. As a result, a train of pulses is produced at the output which has an average frequency which is the arithmetic or numerical product of the average frequency of the trains of pulses supplied by the three random pulse generators RPG', RPG", RPG"'. 
 it is thus seen that a random pulse generator has been provided which may be employed to generate trains of pulses what occur randomly at an average frequency that may be varied at will, and that input trains of such randomly occurring pulses may be employed in various ways to produce a train of randomly occurring pulses in which the average frequency of the pulses is mathematically related in a predetermined manner to the average frequency of the pulses in the input trains. it is to be understood, of course, that the invention may be modified in many ways without departing from the scope of the appended claims. In particular it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to the specific embodiments thereof disclosed, or to the specific numerical values of elements employed in the embodiments described. Furthermore, many other types of components may be employed to practice the invention in place of those which have been specifically described. 
The invention claimed is: 
 l. A computing device comprising means including a click pulse source and noise supply means interconnected to generate a plurality of input trains of synchronous pulses, the pulses occurring in said trains independently of each other and at intervals of random duration, 
and logic means controlled by the input trains of pulses for producing an output train of pulses in which each output pulse occurs in accordance with a predetermined logical function of the presence values of the pulses in the input trains. 
 2. A computing device as defined in claim ll wherein said logic means comprises an AND gate having a plurality of input legs to which the respective input trains of pulses are applied whereby pulses occur in the output train at an average rate which is proportional to the arithmetic product of the average rates of occurrence of pulses in the input trains. 
3. In a computing device as defined in claim 2, 
means for independently establishing the average frequencies of occurrence of pulses in the respective input trains at values approximately equal to the values of a plurality positive numbers that are to be multiplied, where each of the numbers is no greater than 1.0. 
 4. A computing device as defined in claim 3 including means for independently indicating the average frequency of occurrence of pulses in the output train of pulses. 
 5. A computing device as defined in claim 4 including means for indicating the average frequency of occurrence of pulses in the input trains of pulses. 
 6. in a random pulse generator defined in claim ll wherein said clock pulse source supplied clock pulses at regular intervals. 
7. in a computing device: 
a source of clock pulses that occur at successive times, 
a plurality of sources of successively occurring noise signals of variable amplitudes, 
a plurality of random pulse generators, all controlled by said clock pulse source, and each respectively controlled by pulses from the respective noise signal sources for producing a corresponding train of randomly occurring pulses, each of which occurs only when the amplitude of the noise signal supplied to the respective generators lies in a predetermined range during the occurrence of a clock pulse, 
and logic means controlled by said trains of pulses for producing an output train of pulses in which each pulse occurs in accordance with a predetermined logical function of the presence values of the pulses in the input trains. 
 8. in a computing device as defined in claim 7 wherein the said output pulses in each of said pulse trains have different amplitudes, 
and comprising a plurality of means for producing pulses in the output of the respective random pulse generators only when the amplitude of the noise signals applied to said respective generator lies above a predetermined level. 
 9. in a computing device as defined in claim 7 wherein each random pulse generator comprises a threshold circuit for producing output pulses in said generator only when the amplitude of noise occurring at some point in said generator lies above a predetermined threshold. 
 Ml). In a computing device as in claim 9 wherein each said random pulse generator comprises means for adjusting the threshold established by the threshold circuit in said random pulse generator whereby the average rate at which pulses occur in the output of the threshold circuit may be varied. 
llll. In a computing device as in claim 10 wherein each said random pulse generator comprises means for indicating the average rate at which pulses are occurring in each random pulse generator and the average rate at which pulses are occurring in the output of said logic means. 
 12. in a computing device as defined in claim 1111 wherein said logic means comprises an AND gate to which pulses are applied from the random pulse generators whereby the average rate at which pulses appear in the output train is the arithmetic product of the average rates at which pulses appear in the respective input trains. 
113. in a computing device, 
a source of clock pulses that occur at successive times, a plurality of random pulse generators controlled by said clock pulse source for generating a corresponding plurality of first trains of synchronous pulses, said pulses occurring in the respective trains only at times predetermined by said clock pulse source, the pulses in the respective first trains being of random amplitude, 
means connected with each generator including a threshold circuit for converting the pulses in each first train into a corresponding second train of pulses of random frequency by removing from each first pulse train only pulses that have amplitudes below a corresponding threshold, and 
means including logic means controlled by pulses of said second trains for producing an output train of pulses in which each pulse occurs in accordance with a predetermined logical function of the presence values of pulses in said second trains. 
143. in a computing device as defined in claim 13 wherein each random pulse generator comprises a threshold circuit for producing output pulses in said generator only when the ammeans for indicating the average rate at which pulses are occurring in each random pulse generator and the average rate at which pulses are occurring in the output of said logic means. 
 17. In a computing device as defined in claim 15 wherein said logic means comprises an AND gate to which pulses of said second trains are applied from the random pulse generators whereby the average rate at which pulses appear in the output train is the arithmetic product of the average rates at which pulses appear in the respective second trains.