Speed command and throttle control system for aircraft 
US-3691356-A
Sperry Rand Corp
1972-09-12
https://patents.google.com/patent/US3691356A/en
United States Patent Miller [451 Sept. 12, 1972 [54] SPEED COMMAND AND THROTTLE CONTROL SYSTEM FOR AIRCRAFT [72] Inventor: Harry Miller, Scottsdale, Ariz. 
[73] Assignee: Sperry Rand Corporation [22] Filed: Dec. 10, 1970 [21] Appl. No.: 96,796 
[52] US. Cl. ..235/150.22, 73/178 T, 244/77 D, 244/77 M [51] Int. Cl ..G06g 7/78, B64c 13/50 [58] Field of Search ..235/l50.2, 150.22, 197; 73/178 R, 178 T; 244/77 R, 77 D, 77 M; 340/27 NA [56] References Cited UNITED STATES PATENTS 3,522,729 8/1970 Miller ..73/178 R 3,504,335 3/1970 Hall et a1. ..73/l78 T X 3,455,160 7/1969 Sleight ..73/l78 T 3,594,553 7/1971 McElroy ..73/178 T X 3,313,152 4/1967 Kulda et a1 ..73/178T 3,379,396 4/1968 Patterson ..244/77 D 3,458,784 7/1969 Boskovich ..244/77 M X Primary Examiner-Malcolm A. Morrison Assistant Examiner-Jerry Smith Attorney-S. C. Yeaton 5 7] ABSTRACT Aircraft control apparatus for providing pitch guidance to the pilot during the takeoff acceleration phase between rotation airspeed and steady climbing speed in accordance with Federal Airworthiness Standards for takeoff safety speeds. The steady climbing target speed is determined from computed values of actual coefficient of lift of the aircraft compared to a reference value of coefficient of lift which is programmed in accordance with the number of operating engines, existing thrust to weight ratio, flap position, and leading edge slat extension. The pitch guidance is derived from a control equation which generates a regulating signal for driving the pitch command pointer of an attitude flight director display. Pitch guidance is provided for the pushover acceleration mode during which the aircraft's takeoff flap-slat configuration is retracted and the aircraft is stabilized on a new climb path at a preset airspeed. Pitch guidance is also provided for a missed approach procedure. Further provision is made for the automatic or manual control of engine throttles to maintain an optimum thrust condition or to maintain a pilot set airspeed, including override means whereby a minimum safe speed based on flap position and computed gross weight will override the selected speed if it is below the computed minimum. An additional override is provided to inhibit pilot selection of airspeeds which are above structural limitations of the flaps. 
The system requires speed control parameters which are computed by apparatus which provides a measure of the angle of attack and coefficient of lift of an aircraft without external probes or vanes, which measure is derived from computations involving measurements of aircraft longitudinal acceleration, normal acceleration vertical speed, calibrated airspeed, Mach number, and positions of the movable aerodynamlc surfaces which affect the coefficient of lift of an airplane. Supplementary outputs of the computer are signals proportional to acceleration along the flight path, thrust over weight ratio, gross weight of the airplane, potential flight path angle of the airplane, and actual flight path angle. 
31 Claims, Drawing Figures 15 VERTICAL SINQ s 39 40 emu 16 F1 AUTO PILOT PITCH g 23 AIR 1 1 CHANNEL DATA 17w COMPUTER h T-D NORMAL W 22 AUTO ACCE" A; 2\ PILOT SPEED CONTROL SYSTEM SPEED CL FUGHT SIGNAL FLow DIAGRAM LIFT OFF CONTROL DIRECTOR 25 DETECTOR PARAMETER L SPEED COMPUTER 72 COMMAND A rc COMPUTER 21 1 LONG ACCEL. l ENGINE OUT  PITCH COMMAND POINTER DRIVER AIR TEMP W PROBE ,U 
 THRUST ENGINE TACHS |N OUTPUT RATING x| mien, 
TRANSD 3! L 33 COMPUTEW ELEV 5 POSITION ranusu 8 no: STAB 24 POSITION I TRANS!) n FAST/SLOW DRIVER I DUTPUT1 ATTITUDE DIRECTOR IN A Mgr/Slow mcjoa (ADI) museum nmoritr H All in RATE I l L (,UMMANI) j]; k, (:nMrunR 1mm; [LL 
lllHUllll SirJIuRS L AND m u ICHLS Suevo r 58 J rSlHVURATF FEFD HACK PAIENTEDSEPIZIQTZ 3.691.356v 
\ SHEEI UlUF Io l I I ELECTRICAL I SENSORS PROCESSING FLIGHT AI RPLANE J CONTROLS CIRcuITs D'RECTOR SERVOS 5' l2 INPUT OUTPUT INTERFACE INTERFACE ELECTRICAL sue SYSTEM FICA. 
T I RELATIVE M WIND Z AXIS FIG.6.' 
FORCE DIAGRAM IN AIRCRAFT PLANE 0F SYMMETRY rap HARRY M/LLER I I W/v/ PATENTEB 12 I 3.691, 356 
SHEET 05 or 10 C050 COSINE GENERATOR 21 LONGITUDINAL AX MULT ACCELEROMETER 5 F LT. PATH V1,- ACCELERATION DIV s| N a COMPUTER I I F LT PATH 5 N7 43 ANGLE COMPUTER g A NORMAL Z, 22 ACCELEROMETER ANGLE OF ATTACK COMPUTER L REF T A8 FUNCTION OF 1.6 AND FLAP POSITION -lO--J l LU 2 ENG FAMILY I/V VE/VTOR PROGRAM HARRY M/LLER TTOR/VE) SPEED COMMAND AND THROTTLE CONTROL SYSTEM FOR AIRCRAFT CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS AND PATENTS The apparatus of the present invention is in general related to Applicants U.S. Pat. No. 3,522,729 entitled Airspeed Command System and assigned to the same assignee as the present invention. The apparatus of the present invention requires in its various computations, 
signals proportional to angle of attack, coefficient of lift, acceleration along the flight path, thrust over weight ratio, grossweight of the aircraft, and potential flight path of the airplane. 
 The angle of attack signal may be computed in accordance with the teachings of Applicantscopending application Ser. No. 873,044, filed Oct. 29, 1969, entitled Angle of Attack Computer and also assigned to the same assignee and now abandoned. Alternatively, the angle of attack computer may be computed in accordance with the teachings of application Ser. No. 873,287, filed Oct. 31, 1969 in the name ofJ. Dendy et al., entitled Angle of Attack Computer and assigned to the same assignee as the present invention. 
 A further novel embodiment for generating the angle of attack signal and other required speed control parameters is described in this disclosure under the title Computer for Speed Control Parameters. The preferred computer achieves greater accuracy during accelerated flight and in the presence of wind and wind shear conditions. The preferred computer also achieves greater accuracy during the take-off run when the aircraft is under the influence of ground effect. Corrections involving effects of bank turns are also disclosed. 
 The elevator maneuver guidance may be provided by a flight director type of instrument of the general characteristics disclosed in the present inventors assignees U.S. Pat. Nos. 2,613,350 and 2,613,352 wherein a single vertically movable horizontal pointer is displaced by a computed pitch command signal, such that the pilot, by maintaining the pointer zeroed on its reference index through elevator control, causes the craft to approach and maintain a prescribed flight path. 
 The flight director pointer may be driven by a meter movement of the type disclosed in Applicants assignees copending patent application Ser. No. 815,933, now U.S. Pat. No. 3,577,195, filed Apr. 14, 1969 in the name of C. E. Clift and entitled Servoed Meter Apparatus. 
 The automatic throttle control may be of the type disclosed in the inventors assignees U.S. Pat. Nos. 2,626,767 and 2,948,496. The dual servo concepts of the Applicants U.S. Pat. No. 3,504,248 for fail-operational control, and the clutch concepts of the Applicants U.S. Pat. No. 3,505,912 are applicable to the over-all speed control system of this disclosure. These patents are assigned to the assignee of the present application. 
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to an aircraft closed loop speed control system of the general type shown in FIG. 1 whereby the controls of the aircraft which determine the speed of the airplane are manipulated in a manner to achieve a desired set of aircraft environmental conditions. As is typical in closed loop systems, it is necessary to measure environmental conditions by applicable sensors, process the electrical outputs of the sensors and convert them to a form which enables them to be compared to the desired set of conditions. The deviation signals are used either to operate a guidance display for the pilot or, alternatively, to drive suitable servoes which operate the aircraft controls automatically. The apparatus of the present invention includes the electrical subsystem of a closed loop over-all aircraft control system shown schematically in FIG. 1, including'the sensors, processing circuitry, flight director displays, and servoes which operate the elevator and throttle controls of the aircraft, which in turn move the aircraft to effect the sensors thereby closing the loop. 
 The apparatus between the input and output interfaces indicated in FIG. 1 controls the speed of the airplane during its entire vertical flight profile including take-off, push-over, climb-to-cruise-altitude, cruise, let-down, approach and landing, or go-around. More specifically, the system provides take-off (and goaround) guidance whereby the pilot is commanded. to manipulate the elevator controls of the aircraft in a prescribed manner consistent with Federal Airworthiness Standards for take-off safety speed. 
 Criteria for the critical take-off and landing maneuvers of commercial jet transports are carefully regulated by the Airworthiness Standards of the Federal Aviation Agency. The basic criteria for the take-off maneuver are expressed as airspeeds designated V V and V which airspeeds are determined by the pilot from data published in the handbook prepared by the designer of the particular aircraft. These airspeeds are such that prescribed minimum margins above stall will exist when the aircraft is airborne under the most critical position of the center of gravity. The aircraft must attain the minimum safety take-off speed (V before the end of the runway is reached. While it is acceptable tofly above the minimum speeds, a constraint exists because of required runway length. The federal standards require runway lengths such that the airplane will clear the end of the runway byat least 35 feet under a condition where the most critical engine has failed. In order to meet these requirements the FAA approved flight manual is based on control to V speed under a failed engine condition and V +10 knots when all engines are operating normally. 
 V, is the refusal airspeed. If an engine fails prior to V,, the take-off must be aborted because the aircraft does not have sufficient ground directional stability at speeds less than V to counteract the yawing moment caused by failure of an outboard engine and therefore all engines must be shut down to remove the moment. Runway lengths are based on stopping the aircraft at a maximum speed of V If an engine fails after V is reached, the take-off must be continued since there will not be sufficient runway left to stop the aircraft. The regulations require sufficient failed-engine performance so that the aircraft will attain V speed prior to the end of the runway, clear the end of the runway by at least 35 feet, and have a prescribed minimum steady state climb gradient at V speed. 
 V is the rotation airspeed, at which speed the nose of the aircraft is rotated up by elevator deflection in preparation of lift off which normally occurs several control capability in the event of an outboard engine failure. 
 The rotation maneuver results in a coefficient of lift which is momentarily greater than the steady state value that will be obtained when the aircraft is climbing steadily at target airspeed (V or V knots, depending on number of operating engines). The momentary overshoot is required in order to get the aircraft airborne rapidly and thus minimize the length of runway required to attain target speed. The amount of the overshoot should be proportional to the acceleration existing at the time of rotation; that is, the overshoot will be small when the airplane weight is high and thrust is low, the overshoot will be high when weight is low and thrust is high. As a consequence of this the target value of coefficient of lift is required to be decreased when the thrust to weight ratio is high in order to keep the momentary value of coefficient of lift from exceeding a value which approaches too close to the stall value. 
 V is the speed which a failed-engine aircraft must attain at the runway fence, i.e., 35 feet above the end of the runway. Airworthiness Standards for V vary with aircraft type. For example, for a three engine aircraft, V cannot be less than 120 percent of the stall speed, V while for a four engine aircraft V cannot be less than 1 percent of V In any event, V cannot be less than 1 10 percent of V Thus, the take-off elevator or pitch maneuver is primarily a speed control problem. The sequence begins at the start of the take-off roll and terminates usually notmore than 5 minutes thereafter. Aircraft jet engines are designed to deliver take-off power for only a fixed period of time and by the end of this time period the aircraft must be in its clean configuration (wheels, flaps, slats, etc. retracted) so that engines can be throttled back to normal climb-to-cruise thrust rating. Federal regulations restrict climb-to-cruise speeds to no greater than 250 knots when flying at altitudes below 10,000 feet. 
 The inventor is unaware of any prior speed control system which, particularly during the take-off and goaround maneuver, provides guidance fully consistent with the requirements of Federal Airworthiness Standards. Prior art apparatus has been employed in the past purportedly to assist the pilot during the critical take-off and go-around maneuver, but insofar as the inventor is aware, this apparatus does not take into consideration all of the constraints imposed by the Airworthiness Standards. 
 The present invention, as will become apparent, is entirely different in kind and function from any prior art of which the inventor is aware and embodies an entirely different basic philosophy. 
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION This invention produces automatically sequenced elevator control commands during the take-off and climb out maneuver which includes rotation, lift-off and acceleration to target safety speed, pushover acceleration to flap retraction speed, and acceleration to climbout speed. The invention also produces throttle rate commands during climb-to-cruise, cruise, letdown, approach, landing flare, and touchdown. The invention further produces a combined elevator control command and throttle rate command for the missed approach procedure. 
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS Preferred embodiments of the present invention are described and illustrated in the attached drawings, wherein: 
 FIG. 1 is an over-all block diagram of the outer or aircraft closed loop speed control system of the present invention and is included for background understandmg; 
 FIG. 2 is a basic block diagram of the electrical subsystem illustrated in FIG. 1; 
 FIGS. 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 are diagrams useful in understanding the invention and especially useful in illustrating the derivation of the mathematical relationship upon which the apparatus of the present invention is based; 
 FIG. 8.is a simplifed block diagram of an angle of attack computer; 
 FIG. 9 is a simplified block diagram of the angle of attack computer employing a weight error feedback term; 
 FIG. 10 is a simplified block diagram of the weight computer embodied in the present invention; 
 FIG. 11 is a detailed block diagram of the speed control parameter computer embodiment in the present invention; 
 FIG. 12 is a graph showing a series of curves showing how parameters of the system vary under different operating conditions; 
 FIG. 13 showing how the reference coefficient of lift is programmed as a function of thrust over weight ratio and flap setting for a typical jet aircraft; 
 FIG. 14 is a block diagram of the autopilot and flight director speed command computer; and 
 FIG. 15 is a block diagram of the fast/slow director and autothrottle computer. 
DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS Referring now to the drawings, a block diagram of the over-all system of the present invention is shown in FIG. 2. This equipment corresponds to the Electrical Subsystem of FIG. 1, comprising sensors, signal processing circuitry, and utilization equipment. 
 The system sensors are shown on the left in FIG. 2. The sensors form the input interface between the electrical subsystem and the aircraft environment. They consist of a vertical gyro 16 with a signal output designated sine 0 (pitch); pitot/static pressure sensors which are included in and utilized by an air data computer 23 to provide output signals 116, 121, 122, proportional to vertical speed (ii), calibrated airspeed (V Mach number (M), an altitude (h), respectively; normal accelerometer 22 providing norm acceleration signal (A lift off detector 26 which may be a switch which is actuated at a predetermined time during the ground roll, preferably at a predetermined pitch attitude after V or when the aircraft landing gear is relieved of load; longitudinal accelerometer 21 providing a longitudinal acceleration signal (A air temperature probe 29; engine fan speed tachometers 30; flap position transducer 27 (8,); elevator position transducer 25 (8,;); horizontal stabilizer position transducer 24 slat position switches 28 which are actuated when the leading edge slats are in retracted position, take-off position, and landing position; and a pilot selectable speed counter or controller 31 (V The signal processing circuitry is subdivided into four major computer groups as shown in FIG. 2; a speed control parameter computer 32, a thrust rating computer 33, autopilot/flight director speed command computer 34, and a fast/slow director and throttle computer 35. These computers receive the sensor signals directly and process them to derive intermediate signals which are further conditioned and processed by the two output computers which, in turn, are used to drive the utilization equipment. 
 The utilization equipment forms the output interface between the electrical subsystem and the. aircrafts elevator and throttle control mechanisms. Each output computer drives two utilization devices. The autopilot/flight director speed command computer 34 has an output which operates the aircrafts elevator through the autopilot pitch channel 39 and elevator servo 40. It also has an output which drives the horizontal flight director pointer 11 of the attitude director indicator l0 (ADI). The fast/slow director and autothrottle computer 35 has an output which operates the fastslow display 113 that is typically at the left side of the ADI. This computer also has an output which drives the throttles through a throttle servo 36 and clutch pack 38. A tachometer 37 feedback from the throttle servo results in a closed loop response to the throttle rate command signal. 
SPEED CONTROL PARAMETER COMPUTER The speed control parameter computer 32 involves the forces and accelerations acting at the center of mass of an airplane in maneuvering flight. FIGS. 3 through 7 illustrate the geometric orientation of the applicable accelerations and forces. These figures are used to derive the fundamental mathematical relationships which form the basis for the implementation of the preferred speed control parameter computer. 
 FIG. 3 illustrates aircraft conditions during level flight; FIG. 4 illustrates conditions during bank turns. In both FIGS. 3 and 4 the plane of symmetry of the airplane is that which contains the triangle OPA. The point P is at the center of mass of the airplane. The line OP is a longitudinal reference line that is fixed to the airplane and is designated the X-axis. The point 0 represents the intersection of the X-axis with the ground reference plane, which plane is orthogonal to a plumb line extending from the airplanes center of mass (P) to the center of the earth. 
 The X and Z axes of the airplane are located in the plane of symmetry of the aircraft. The Z axis extends through the center of mass (P) and is orthogonal to the X-axis. A third reference line is designated the Y-axis. It also extends through the center of mass, forming with the X and Z axes a three dimensional mutually orthogonal frame of reference that is fixed to the airplane. 
 The vertical reference plane shown in FIGS. 3 and 4 is a plane that goes through point 0, is orthogonal to the ground plane and, in addition, contains a line that is parallel to the direction of the relative wind. The angle between the direction of the relative wind and the X- axis of the airplane is the angle of attack of the airplane, designated a. The angle between the direction of the relative wind and the ground plane is the flight path angle of the airplane, designated y. The angle between the X-axis of the airplane and the ground plane is the pitch angle of the airplane, designated 0. The pitch angle and flight path angle are measured in vertical planes which are orthogonal to the ground plane. 
 During wings-level flight (FIG. 3) the plane of symmetry is coincident with the vertical reference plane. Since the pitch angle and flight path angle are measured in the same plane, the pitch angle equals the sum of angle of attack and flight path angle; that is: 
 During turning flight (FIG. 4), the plane of symmetry (defined by the triangle O-P-A) is not coincident with the vertical plane which contains the direction of the relative wind. Under these conditions, the pitch angle and flight path angle are not measured in the same plane and equation (I) does not hold. The flight path angle is measured in the plane which contains triangle O-A-B while the pitch angle is measured in the plane which contains the quadrangle O-P-E-D. 
 The angle designated as 1 in FIG. 4 is the aircraft bank angle. The bank angle can be measured by the outer gimbal structure of a vertical gyroscope whose spin axis is slaved to be aligned with a plumb line which extends from the center of mass (P) to the center of the earth. This plumb line intersects the ground reference plane at point F in FIGS. 3 and 4. The angle D is the angle between the Z axis of the airplane and a line in the vertical pitch angle plane which is perpendicular to the X axis of the airplane. 
 It is helpful in determining the orientation of the various angles of FIG. 4 to consider the lines of FIG. 4 as the edges of a six sided polyhedron, each side of which is a right triangle or a rectangle. The fold out of these sides is illustrated in FIG. 7. The letters defining points of the several triangles correspond to those shown in FIG. 4. The mathematical derivations shown in FIG. 7 prove that the general expression which relates pitch angle, angle of attack, and flight path angle is: 
The flow of air passing the aircraft will generate an aerodynamic force on the aircraft. This is shown. as an open arrow (F in FIG. 6. For convenience, this force is resolved into two components, designated drag and lift. The drag component (D) is along the flight path of the airplane (along the direction of the relative wind). The lift component (L) is at right angles to the flight path. 
 The thrust due to the engines is in a forward direction along the X axis of the airplane. It is designated T in FIG. 6. The vector sum of thrust, drag, and lift will form a resultant force which is used to balance the gravity attraction of the earth, with any excess causing aircraft acceleration. 
 A total acceleration (A exists at the center of mass of the airplane. The time history of the magnitude and direction of the total acceleration vector will determine the flight path of the airplane. It is convenient to resolve the total acceleration vector into three mutually orthogonal components. These are along the X, Y, and Z axes, designated X, Y and Z, respectively. The components in the plane of symmetry are X and Z. These can be combined to form the longitudinal acceleration vector, designated A The vector components in the plane of symmetry are shown in FIG. 5. 
 The total longitudinal acceleration vector (A can also be resolved into a second pair of mutually orthogonal components; one along the flight path and one at right angles to the flight path. These components are designated V and A in FIG. 5. For purposes of the present invention, it will be assumed that the relative wind impinges on the aircraft essentially along its plane of symmetry. This will be true if the aircraft is not in a sideslip condition; that is, if the airplane is operating with negligible rudder deflection. Under these conditions, V as shown in FIG. 5, represents the acceleration along the flight path. The components A and Y can be combined by vector addition. The resultant will be the centrifugal acceleration on the aircraft, arising because the airplane mass is moving along a curved path. 
 Linear accelerometers, which are strapped to the aircraft X, Y, and Z axes, can be used to measure the accelerations. If it is assumed that the aircraft operates with small sideslip angles, it is only necessary to consider the accelerations along the X and Z axes. The relationships can be summarized as follows: 
V =Xcosa-Zsina The outputs of linear accelerometers that are strapped to the X and Z axes contain spurious signals because they are affected by the gravitational field of the earth. This effect can be analyzed by replacing the gravitational field of the earth with an equivalent value of acceleration. This is shown as an upward arrow from point P in FIG. 4 and is designated g. If the gravitational field of the earth were removed the mass of the airplane would be subjected to a force (W) along the plumb line, exactly equivalent to that existing when the earths gravitation field was present. 
 The accelerometers cannot differentiate between the equivalent acceleration of the earths gravitational field and the X and Z acceleration components. The effects can be compensated, however, because the value of g is accurately known asis its direction (along a plumb line). All that is necessary is to resolve the g acceleration along the particular axis of interest. From FIG. 4, the spurious component along the X axis is g sin along the Z axis it is g cos 6 cos I along the Y axis it is g cos 0 sin (I along the flight path it is g sin y. The signal outputs of the accelerometers are designated A and A A =Xsina+Zcosa A (+gsin0 Equations (3) and 4) can accordingly be expressed: 
 r=( x8 Sin r-g cos 0 cos d sin 01(7 cn. (Ag 8 Sin 0) Sin a l- (A g cos 0 cos b) cos a The acceleration along the flight path is proportional to the resultant of forces which act along the flight path. These include contributions from thrust, drag, 
and weight. The lift component (being orthogonal to the flight path) does not contribute force in the direction of flight. Referring to FIG. 4, the component of weight along the flight path is W sin 'y. The net force along the flight path is proportional to flight path acceleration: 
 W/g(\ )=Tcosa DWsin'y This can also be written as: 
T cos aD Z- g +s1n 'y Combining equations (2), (7), and (9) and simplifying the result is the following relationship: 
T cos a-D A cos a-A sin a Equation (12) is the basis for the angle of attack computer implementation of the present invention and for this purpose it is written in the form: 
v g A W A7, 3) The flight path angle can be expressed as: 
Sin 'y EN (14) where ii is aircraft vertical speed and V is velocity along the flight path. 
 The basic concept of the angle of attack computer implementation of the present invention is that the gross weight of the aircraft varies very slowly during flight, representing only burn off of fuel. Thus, in accordance with the present invention, this fact is used as a check on the accuracy of the angle of attack computer by using the computed data to derive a measure of the gross weight. If the weight measure varies rapidly, it is indicative of inaccuracy in the initial computation. The rate of change of the weight computation is accordingly used in a feedback configuration to correct the computations as will be more fully described below. 
 The computation of gross weight involves the forces and accelerations along the Z axis of the airplane. From FIGS. 5 and 6: 
 W/g Z L cos a+ D sin a-W cos 0 cos I 15 Substitution of equation (6) into (15) results in the following expression: 
L cos a-l-D sin a i -W, W Lift and drag are conventionally expressed: 
L CLq (17) D C qS l 8) where: 
S is wing area q is dynamic pressure C L is coefficient of lift C is coefficient of drag Substitution of equations (17) and (18) into (l6) results in the following expression for lift over weight ratio: 
 W 9 8, sin a+cos 01 The computed gross weight is: 
C L/W L/W The thrust to weight ratio can also be determined by relationships l l l7) and l8): 
 The speed control parameter computer 32 is a mechanization of equations (13) through (21 An exact implementation for equation (l3) requires measures of longitudinal acceleration (A normal accleration (A flight path acceleration (V and flight path angle (sin 7). 
 FIG. 8 is a simplified schematic of apparatus for performing this computation wherein the sensor signal sources for the longitudinal and normal acceleration terms (A x and A are the longitudinal and vertical accelerometers 21 and 22, respectively, while the signal sources for the flight path acceleration and flight path angle terms (V and sin y) are supplied by sub computation networks 20 and 43 respectively. As required by equation (13) the longitudinal acceleration, flight path acceleration, and flight path angle signals are supplied to a summing amplifier 45 in the senses indicated, the output of which is divided by the normal acceleration signal by conventional divider network 46. The mul tiplication of the longitudinal acceleration signal by cos a is obtained hya feedback path through conventional cosine generator 47. The cosine generator is based on the trigonometric relation: 
 cos a= l sin a (22) The implementation shown in FIG. 8 presents several computation problems which will be discussed later as the description proceeds. Assume for the moment, however, that these problems are solved in a practical manner and that the entire configuration of FIG. 8 is replaced with an equivalent box which has an electrical output signal proportional to sine a, as is indicated at 48 in the angle of attack computer arrangement of FIG. 9. The numbers in parentheses in FIG. 9 represent signals proportional to electrical quantities in accordance with corresponding equations in this specification. 
 The sin a signal is combined in summing amplifier 49 with signals proportional to elevator deflection (8 from sensor 25, horizontal stabilizer position (i for sensor 24, and flap position from sensor 27 to derive a signal proportional to the steady state coefficient of lift of the airplane. Thus, the output of sum amplifier 49 represents a solution of the following equation: 
CL=CLO+CLQ i n n'i n n (23) For a particular airplane Q L is a function of flap position, slat position, and Mach number. CL is a function of flap position, Mach number, and angle of attack. 
G and C' E ll are functions of Mach number. The blocks 65, 66, 69 and 70 designated by these quantities respectively in FIG. 9 represent conventional function generators which convert the variables to a form which matches the known steady state characteristics of a particular airplane. 
 The lift over weight ratio computer 82 may be apparatus to perform an exact computation of equation (19) but it will be shown below how the requirements of the solution may be relaxed by use of the weight feedback terms. The dynamic pressure signal (q) is obtained from an air data computer 23 which receives pressure information from pitot and static pressure probes on the airplane. These pressures are converted in the air data computer to electrical signals proportional to static pressure (p), vertical speed (ii), Mach number (M), and calibrated airspeed (V Dynamic pressure is derived from the relationship: 
The dynamic pressure can be expressed in terms of the equivalent velocity of an incompressible fluid (V having the density of air at sea level and 59 F (p,,), when brought to rest: 
 I po e f gc (25) where f is the compressibility factor and q is the pressure differential between the pitot and static probes. The compressibility factor is a function of Mach number. 
 For altitudes below 10,000 feet, it is sufficiently accurate to substitute calibrated airspeed for equivalent airspeed since f, is nearly the same as f at low altitudes. 
 In FIG. 9 the output of sum amplifier 49 is a signal proportional to C and this signal is divided, as by conventional divider network 56, by the output of L/W computer 82 to thereby provide an output proportional to (C )/(L/W). After amplification by a gain proportional to the wing area constant S the signal is multiplied, in conventional multiplier 57, by the q output of air data sensor 23. Thus, equation (20) is solved and the upper input to sum amplifier 58 is a signal proportional to computed aircraft weight W The W signal output of amplifier 58 is applied to a low pass filter and integrator network 59 to the output for which is fed back to sum amplifier 58 to be subtracted from its original input. 
 The coefficient of lift contribution to the W equation (as implemented in FIG. 9) has several dynamic deficiencies. The C aircraft characteristics for steady state conditions are accurately known and are reflected in equation (23). During dynamic conditions, however, the information is not known with sufficient precision. Another dynamic deficiency relates to equation (13) for angle of attack, which equation includes inertial terms and therefore is correct only when there are no winds relative to the earth. In the presence of wind and wind shear conditions, however, dynamic errors will arise. 
 The purpose of the weight error feedback signal shown in FIG. 9 is to eliminate these dynamic errors. It recognizes the fact that the actual weight of the aircraft varies slowly. Because of the dynamic errors, the signal represented by equation will vary considerably during transients and wind shear conditions. The integrator configuration shown in FIG. 9 accordingly operates to filter the computed weight signal in accordance with the following relationship: 
W= We 27 where s is the differential operator with respect to time. 
 The difference between the instantaneous value (equation 20) and the filtered value (equation 27) is designated the weight error signal: 
 As shown in FIG. 9, this error signal is fed back via lead 63 into the angle of attack computer 48 in a closed loop manner. The gain of the feedback signal (k determines the degree of correction. The magnitude of the gain is limited in a practical case because the filtered weight signal will not respond accurately to even the relatively slow variation in aircraft weight due to fuel burn off if the feedback is too high. A practical limit is dictated by an equivalent closed loop filter time constant, l +k) T between 200 and 500 seconds. 
 Equation (20) represents a computation of the weight that is supported by aerodynamic forces on the aircraft. During the ground roll of the aircraft prior to lift off, the weight of the aircraft is partially supported by the landing gear and partially by aerodynamic force. The portion supported by the aerodynamic force increases during the ground roll until, at lift off, the entire weight is transferred from the landing gear to the aerodynamic surfaces. It is therefore desirable that the weight computation be updated rapidly to the point of lift off. 
 The output of sum amplifier 49 of FIG. 9 (equation 23 represents the computation of steady state coefficient of lift when the aircraft lift characteristics are not affected by proximity to the ground. The ground effect generally occurs when the aircraft is at heights which are less than a single wingspan length. When the aircraft is rolling on the ground, the direction of the relative wind behind the wing remains essentially parallel to the X-axis of the aircraft. As the aircraft moves away from the ground after lift off the direction of the relative wind behind the wing is modified to have a downward component (downwash) which changes the aerodynamic force on the tail. The lack of downwash when moving on the ground changes the lift characteristics of the aircraft to such an extent that equation 23 cannot be used for accurate weight computation during the ground roll. 
 The instantaneous parameters for determining the gross weight at lift off are lift over weight ratio (L/W), dynamic pressure (q), and coefficient of lift at liftoff CL The lift over weight ratio per equation 19 is primarily a function of normal acceleration (A and is, therefore, accurately known at lift off. The dynamic pressure is also accurately determined at lift off, being derived in air data computer 23 per equation 24. The value of CL is a function of the flap/slat configuration, the horizontal stabilizer position, and the pitch attitude of the aircraft relative to the ground at lift off. 
 FIG. 10 is a block diagram of a computer configuration used to determine the gross weight (W) of the aircraft at lift off. For the purposes of this disclosure lift off is defined as that moment during the rotation maneuver when the pitch attitude of the aircraft attains a predetermined value 0 The value of 6 is set to be slightly higher than the actual pitch attitude existing when the wheels of the aircraft leave the ground. In general, jet aircraft leave the ground within a relatively narrow band of pitch attitude values. In order to obtain an accurate measure of lift over weight ratio it is necessary that the aircraft be completely airborne so that no portion of the weight is supported by the landing gear. The lift off detector is a switch which is energized and latched when the pitch attitude of the aircraft first attains 0 The lift off coefficient generator derives a signal which represents the value of L for the specific settings of flap (o horizontal stabilizer (i i and lift off pitch attitude (6 The lift off weight is determined by a continuous computation during the ground roll using a very small value (Tw of the normal gross weight filter time constant (Tw At the moment of lift off the instantaneous value of computed weight is stored and used subsequently as the reference value for generating the weight error signal. This is done by switching to a long time constant (Tw,) gross weight filter. Thus, in in FIG. 10, the coefficient of lift computer 49' (which may comprise those elements of FIG. 9 feeding amplifier 49) supplies its normal airborne value output to the upper contact of switch 201 and thence to divider 56 and multiplier 57 to sum amplifier 58 as in FIG. 9. However, during the ground roll, lift off detector and latch 26 is not operated whereby switch 201 is in its lower position as illustrated. In this position, a lift off coefficient of lift generator 203 supplies the value of coefficient of lift CLLO which is predetermined as a function of the take off position of the flaps, 8 (and slats) and horizontal stabilizer i and a predetermined value of pitch attitude 0 whereby the aircraft weight computation at lift off is based on this predetermined value of L Also, as illustrated, the lift off detector 26 actuates a switch 204 which, under airborne conditions, as described in FIG. 9, supplies the output of amplifier 58 and filter 59 to the input of the integrator 60. 
 In the preferred embodiment of the present invention, the switching threshold of lift off detector and latch 26, is a predetermined value (O' of the pitch attitude of the aircraft which is slightly higher or greater than the actual lift off pitch attitude The difference between 6 and 0' is such as to assure that the aircraft is airborne and that therefore the value of L/W is based on airborne data. 
 As stated above, the lift off weight is being continuously computed during the ground roll using a very small value of the airborne weight filter time constant. This is accomplished by connecting a second filter 59 from the output of amplifier 58 to the lower contact of switch 204 whereby the lift off detector de-energized or unactuated, the weight computation is updated very rapidly. 
 At V the pilot, following the dictates of the flight director 10, rotates the aircraft in pitch and when the pitch attitude first reaches O' the lift off detector 26 is actuated and latched. Switches 201 and 204 are moved to their upper positions. The value of the weight signal just prior to actuation of detector 26 was based on the predetermined value of L (including the predetermined lift off pitch attitude), L/W and q, which value was effectively clamped by integrator 60 by having its input switched from short time constant filter 59' to very long time constant filter 59. Thus, any weight error existing after actuation of detector 26 is immediately reflected at the output of amplifier 58 and fed back to the input of the normal airborne C computer to correct any computation errors. 
 Using the weight error feedback concept of the present invention, it is now opportune to consider a simplified and practical solution to the angle of attack computation problems alluded to previously. The closed loop feedback correction allows approximations to be made to the exact implementations for angle of attack (FIG. 8) as well as corrections to the exact computations of flight path acceleration (equation 7) and flight path angle (equation 14). Of course, the approximations involve primarily only dynamic errors. 
 Thus, in FIG. 11 a preferred embodiment for computer apparatus for providing the speed control parameters for a transport type of airplane is illustrated. Here again, the numbers in parentheses in the diagram represent signals proportional to quantities in accordance with corresponding equations of the specification. 
The approximation used for flight path acceleration V1 (A A sin and is implemented as follows referring to F IG.- 1 l. 
 Signals proportional to A and A are supplied by longitudinal accelerometers 21 and 22, respectively, the latter term being multiplied by a signal proportional to sin 0 supplied by vertical gyro 16 in multiplier 37, and both signals are supplied in the senses shown as inputs to sum amplifier 38. A calibrated airspeed signal (V is supplied by air data computer 23 and is filtered through a washout circuit 34 before being applied to amplifier 38. A feedback with integral circuit around amplifier 38 is also provided for compensation purposes as will be described. The output of amplifier 38 is therefore a signal representative of the bracketed terms of equation (29) and it is supplied as one input to a further amplifier 40 whose other input constitutes the weight error feedback signal on lead 63 through a gain adjusting circuit k Equation (29) as implemented in FIG. 11, represents several very desirable practical considerations. The exact relationship for flight path acceleration (equation 7) consists of an algebraic sum of relatively large values. Each of the terms has a significant value during steady state conditions. By definition, the value of the flight path acceleration is zero under steady state conditions. It is therefore highly desirable to process the signal through a washout circuit to block transmission of steady state signals through the flight path acceleration computer. The desired value of the washout circuit time constant (T9) is about 20 seconds. While the use of a blocking network introduces dynamic errors, they are compensated by the weight error feedback term. In order to reduce the magnitude of the k gain, use is made of a calibrated airspeed feedback term (VJ/(T which partially corrects the dynamic error of the washout circuit. The rationale for using A x A sin 6 in lieu of (A 3 sin 0) cos az- (A;- g cos 6 cos D) sin aof equation (7) resides in the fact that the approximation is valid if angle of attack is relatively small and the value of g is assumed to equal A The approximation is appropriate because the weight error feedback term has the ability to correct for errors in dynamic approximation as well as for perturbations due to wind shear conditions. 
 The requirements of the apparatus of FIG. 8 include a flight path angle computer 43 whose output is necessary as an input to the angle of attack computer. In FIG. 11 the derivation of flight path angle utilizes two readily available signals. These are the vertical speed signal (ii) from air data computer 23 and the Mach number signal (A M) also available from air data computer 23. The air data computer 23 is also the source of the calibrated airspeed signal (V used in the flight path acceleration computation just described and also for generating the computed weight signal as described with respect to FIG. 9. The calibrated airspeed signal is approximately equal to equivalent airspeed for low values of airspeed and altitude typical of transport takeoff and landing conditions. As discussed previously, the air data computer can generate an accurate dynamic pressure signal (q) if required for high Mach applications. 
 Referring again to F lG. 11, the flight path angle computation is based on equation (30). A vertical speed signal h is supplied by air data computer 23 and is applied to a low pass filter 41 the output of which is divided by a Mach airspeed signal, also supplied by an air data computer 23, through divider network 42. The 
resulting output is a signal corresponding to flight path sin (30 where A, is the speed of sound in air and T is the filter time constant. 
 Referring still to FIG. 11, the signal proportional to sin a is: 
Equation (31) is equivalent to the exact equation I rected signal proportional to the angle of attack (sin a) of the aircraft. The L/W signal derived by the apparatus of FIG. 11 reflects a simplification from equation 19). As used in FIG. 11, the relationship is: 
 The signal proportional to A is again supplied by normal accelerometer 22. It is supplied to multiplier 35 the output of which is therefore A sin a This signal is multiplied by a signal proportional to ratio of the coefficient of drag C to the coefficient of lift C, to be described below, and the product, (C )/(C A sin a, is supplied to sum amplifier 36 the output of which is a signal proportional to the numerator of equation (32). This output is modified by a gain factor 1 lg to provide the desired computed lift over weight (L/W) term. In FIG. 11, the coefficient of lift term C is derived as in FIG. 8 and its signal appears at the output of sum amplifier 49. 
 Equation (32) is within fipercent of the exact expression (equation 19). The ratio of (C,,) /(C,) is based on the following expression for coefficient of drag: 
 C =C +k(C A) where CD0 k, and a are constants. CD and k are functions of flap position; a is a function of leading edge slat extension. 
The ratio (C )/(C is therefore o C k0. 
 Thus, in FIG. 11 signals proportional to the predetermined functions of flap position and slat position CD k and a are provided by function generator 71 having inputs from flap transducer 27 and slat switches 28. The output (C k a of function generator 71 is divided by C to provide the first term of equation (34) and supplied as one input to sum amplifier 73, another input being the ka signal from generator 71. The third input is the C signal on lead 72 from amplifier 49 modified by function generator 71' as a function of flap position. The resultant output of amplifier 73 is therefore a signal proportional to the coefficients of drag and list ratio (C )/(C, of equation (34). This signal is supplied to the L/W computer circuits, i.e., to multiplier 76 and amplifier 36 as described above for the solution of equation (32). 
 As will be discussed in detail below, and in accordance with the present invention, the reference coefficient of lift QL is a function of the thrust to weight ratio (T/W) of the aircraft and the excess of thrust to drag over weight ratio (TD)/(W)) is used to set the maneuver rate limits and to actuate the fast/slow indicator of the flight director in the takeoff and go around mode. Signals proportional to these quantities are also provided by the speed control parameters computer 32 illustrated in FIG. 11. The value of the excess of thrust to drag over weight ratio term is determined by equation (1 1) above. While equation (I l) is an exact solution, it will be appreciated that the small angle assumption for cos a is valid, thereby simplifying the computation circuitry. Thus, in FIG. 11, the output of multiplier 35 is summed with the longitudinal accelerometer signal A from accelerometer 21 in amplifier 74 the output of which is therefore a signal proportional to equation l 1), cos a being assumed unity. 
 Equation (21) is also simplified by the same small angle assumption. The output of amplifier 36 and gain factor l/g which represents equation (32) is multiplied by the C signal from amplifier 34 in multiplier 87, its output being summed with the output of amplifier 74 (equation 1 l) to thereby provide the solution for equation (21), a signal on lead 89 proportional to the thrust-to-weight ratio (T/W). 
 The computed flight path angle output, designated sin y, is based on a rearrangement of equation (10), assuming cosine a is unity: 
 Sin V=( 1c)/(g) Equation (35) represents a more accurate measure of flight path angle than does equation (30) because it includes the dynamic compensation of the weight error feedback term. 
 In FIG. 11, the (T D)/(W) term on lead 15 is applied to sum amplifier 82, the other input of which is the output (V of amplifier 40 after modification by a gain factor proportional to 1/g. Thus, the output of amplifier 82 is a signal accurately proportional to the flight path angle (sin a) of the aircraft and may be useful in other aircraft systems. 
 The lift off detector 26 discussed above with respect to FIGS. 11 and 12 is triggered upon the aircraft achieving a predetermined pitch attitude. This embodiment has the advantage that switching is accomplished by data readily available in the system and requiring no sensor switches external to the system. However, it will be understood that, while this is a preferred embodiment the detector 26 could be triggered by other means sensing lift off; for example, by a switch on the landing gear operated when the weight of the aircraft is removed therefrom. Thus, in the over-all apparatus shown in FIG. 2, the lift off detector 26 is intended to be a generic illustration. 
 Military aircraft will release weights of known or predetermined magnitude such as bombs, stores, etc., intermittently during flight and therefore such sudden changes in craft weight would require that the gross weight computation be updated at the time of release. Because of the deliberate action required, the update can be accomplished by predetermined values that are synchronized with the actual release of the specific items and inserted into amplifier 86 of FIG. 11 whose output on lead 134 is a signal representative of aircraft gross weight W in accordance with equation (27). 
THRUST RATING COMPUTER Returning now to FIG. 2, the function of the thrust rating computer 33 is to generate a value of an engine parameter which is indicative of optimum thrust performance under the existing conditions of outside air temperature, altitude, Mach number, engine bleed con ditions, and aircraft operating mode. For some engines the proper parameter is the speed of the low speed rotor which is attached to the fan (usually designated fan speed, N,). For other engines the proper parameter is engine pressure ratio (usually designated EPR). 
 The thrust rating computer 33 utilizes sensor inputs comprising signals in accordance with outside air temperature from sensor 29 and altitude and Mach number from air data computer 23, engine fan speeds from engine tachometer 30. The signals are processed to derive an error signal on lead 165 proportional to the difference between the desired engine fan speed (or engine pressure ratio) and the actual value of the fan speed of the fastest engine. This error signal is utilized by the autothrottle computer illustrated in FIG. 15 to adjust engine throttles 38 to maintain optimum thrust conditions when desired by the pilot, as will be described. The particular operating mode is determined by using suitable pushbuttons on a cockpit controller (not shown). Typical selectable operating modes of the speed control system of the present invention are take-off, continuous climb, cruise, approach and go-around. 
 The thrust rating computer 33 also generates an engine out" discrete signal on lead 90 which is indicative of an engine failure. This is predetermined by sensing that the fan speed (or EPR) of any of the engines has dropped below some predetermined value. The engine out discrete is used to adjust the reference value of coefficient of lift OLREF during takeoff to correspond with V target speed under a failed engine condition and V knots when all engines are operating normally as described below. 
AUTOPILOT/FLIGI-IT DIRECTOR SPEED COMMAND COMPUTER The primary function of the autopilot/flight director speed command computer 34 of FIG. 2 is to generate a regulating signal (E) for moving the pitch command pointer 11 of the attitude director indicator 10 for takeoff and go-around guidance. The control equation that governs the regulating signal is: 
 In accordance with the teachings of the present in- I vention, the reference coefficient of lift L is the target value of coefficient of lift that the aircraft should attain when it is stabilized on its initial climb path at the time it clears the end of the runway during takeoff and go-around modes of operation. It corresponds to the target takeoff speed that is tabulated in the aircraft operating handbook and is consistent with the Federal Airworthiness Standards for safety speeds for a particular airframe. The value of 0 is a variable that will change instantly if an engine should fail or for any other factors that affect the thrust of the engines, such as fan speed, engine pressure ratio, airspeed, air temperature, altitude, Mach number, engine bleeds, etc. It also adjusts itself automatically with configuration changes of flaps, slats, and direct lift spoilers. 
 FIG. 12 shows calculated takeoff time histories for a typical three engine commercial transport aircraft under three typical constant thrust-to-weight ratio conditions. The curves show the time variation of actual coefficient of lift, flight path velocity, and flight path trajectory from the time of rotation when under the regulating signal control of equation 36. Note that by adjusting 1 as a function of T/W, the peak value of momentary coefficient of lift does not exceed a value corresponding to a 10 percent margin above stall for all values of engine thrust. 
 Typical programs for reference coefficient of lift versus thrust-to-weight ratio are illustrated in FIG. 13 for a three engine jet transport at various flap settings. These programs are used to establish the handbook safety speeds for the corresponding values of engine thrust, flap setting, and aircraft gross weight based on the formula: 
 11 DBK CLREF and three-engine operation, respectively. The two-engine family reflects V speed; the three-engine family reflects V 10 knots speed. The three-engine family is generated from the two-engine (V family by shifting each point of the two-engine characteristics to a corresponding point along the T/W axis to a value 50 percent greater and along the CLREF axis to a value 14 percent less. For example, the fwo-engine point corresponding to a T/W equal to 0.2 for flap 25 is 1.510. The corresponding point for three-engine operation is CLREF equals 1.300 at T/W equal to 0.3. 
 The flat portion of the two-engine CLREF characteristic at thrust to weight ratios less than 0.2 reflects V speed equal to 1.2 V The u is decreased (corresponding to increased airspeed) for thrust-to-weight ratios greater than 0.2. The decreasing characteristics reflect the effects of minimum control speed and-the necessity of keeping the momentary