Laser-sight and computer for anti-aircraft gun fire control system 
US-3845276-A
Hughes Aircraft Co
1974-10-29
https://patents.google.com/patent/US3845276A/en
United States Patent [1 1 Kendy et al. A 
[111 3,845,276 Oct. 29, 1974 LASER-SIGHT AND COMPUTER FOR ANTI-AIRCRAF'I GUN FIRE CONTROL SYSTEM [75] Inventors: Leonard Kendy, Palos Verdes Peninsula; Richard L. Frey, Los Angeles, both of Calif. 
[73] Assignee: Hughes Aircraft Company, Culver City, Calif. 
[22] Filed: Dec. 17, 1971 [21] Appl. No.: 209,268 
[52] US. Cl. 235/615 S, 89/41 L, 89/41 AA, 
[51] Int. Cl. G06g 7/78, F4lg 3/06 [58] Field of Search 235/615; 89/41; 244/316, 
[56] References Cited UNITED STATES PATENTS 3,309,963 3/1967 Salomonsson 235/615 E 3,443,476 5/1969 Heider et al. 89/41 E 3,685,159 8/1972 Erhard 89/41 AA FOREIGN PATENTS OR APPLICATIONS 1,928,483 1/1971 Germany 235/615 Primary Examiner-Felix D. Gruber Attorney, Agent, or Firm-W. H. MacAllister, Jr. 
[5 7] ABSTRACT A gun fire control system for pointing a gun at rapidly moving targets such as an aircraft is disclosed. The system comprises a vibration isolated control unit including a gunners sight assembly which is provided with line of sight indicating instrumentation and uses common optical elements both for visual sighting by the gunner to generate manual acquisition commands and for a continuously operable laser transmitterreceiver rangefinder. The control unit alsoincludes a solid state hybrid computer for providing continuous implicit separate solutions of lead angle equations and aided tracking equations respectively, and for generating commands for directing the tire of the gun in response to signals derived from solution of appropriate lead angle equations, and supplied to gun servos. The computer uses signals derived from the rangefinder in its automatic tracking aid circuits to generate commands to the sight assembly, but the gunner retains override and trim capability over these commands. Measurement of the velocity vector of the moving target is made in a moving coordinate system having one of its three mutually orthogonal axes always lying along the line of sight from the gunner to the target. The measured vector components of target velocity expressed in this first moving coordinate system are then transformed to quantities expressed in a second inertial coordinate system having its origin at the position of the gun and the observer and one axis lying along the local gravitational vector in order to generate the appropriate tracking aid commands and to afford a more accurate basis for the real time continuous solution of the three simultaneous lead angle equations. 
11 Claims, 25 Drawing Figures Hand Set r-\ 29 300 103*] l-l02 R Computer R, cos e i RTQE 104 f RT w I05 (R -RT ||5 jos 'R cos -r un Elevation f? L1 1 Axis Servo l -|2| f Tach PAIENIEBoms 1914 313451276 SHEET 02 0F 10 mummies m4 7 3345276 saw on or 10 Power pp y Gunner H d Opricolsighi Target Comm Y and servo 2O 29 48 o v I Solid State I I Gunner (Hand set non-sid cond.) 7 Computer 0 g 36 v A A G un Fl Servos Wide Field For Acquisition Narrow Field For Tracking PAIENlElIncr 29 m4 3. 845, 276 
SllEU 05 0F b 2% Fl .7 
 I 53 54 5 '57 Laser l Ran ge L' Detectors 4 i Register R Missed Returns 29b i' r Logic Quadrant mock Range R Y Loglc Rate LOQICV y l 2 Fig.7a 
g IO E 2 5 i E E 5 2 2 i I I I I I I l l I l 2 5 IO 20 I00 200 Meteorological ranqe, Kilometers Fig.8 
 R l Tracking Re 4 6 Aid As 6 5 /73 r" MIII'OI' Gunr'ters Ti'me Electronics I I I I Hand Delay and "TI Control Torquer I I Resolver 4- I. s Tachometer 74 PAlENIEMmes m4 $845276 sum '05 or 10 I I I: Azimuth D C g/ 70 Torquer v 79 Elevation 1 76 D o Torquer Tech. Resolver "7 73 I Resolver I 17 77b Resolver Resolver s r l- Tech. /78 
L I I (0E n 0 Resolver 77s R I l I I l Gun Elevation Servo Tachometer Delay l I 3r l I Time Divider SHEET 110 OF 10 Tracking Aid Computations and Quadrant Logic To Gun Servo Lead Angle Computations PAIENIEUIJBI 29 m4 30- 'Computer Gun Azimuth Servo I Tachometer ---T .vfi Reference Excess Error Warning to Gunner Contparotor Reference Fi g 16 Com puter Fig.1? 
 LASER-SIGHT AND COMPUTER FOR ANTI-AIRCRAFT GUN FIRE CONTROL SYSTEM BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to fire control systems and particularly to a system such as an anti-aircraft gun fire control system that provides accurate repetitive or burst gun fire control at a rapidly moving or maneuvering target and that responds to a plurality of variable parameters. 
 Various gun fire control systems have in the past been produced for particular applications or having a particular feature. For example, US. Pat. No. 3,575,085 issued to William E. McAdam, Jr. on Apr. 13, 1971 discloses a fire control system wherein the gun is controlled by an analog computer in response to range information derived from a laser such as a ruby laser of the single pulse variety. This system is used in conjunction with control of anti-tank gun fire. The single range determination made by the single shot or single pulse laser is sufficient for use against stationary or slowly moving earthbound targets, but neither the laser nor the system as a whole is suitable for use'in accurate gun fire control against aircraft or other rapidly moving targets. 
 Representative of prior patents dealing with fire control systems which were intended for use against aircraft are such patents as U.S. Pat. No. 3,288,030 issued to K. G. F. Lind on Nov. 29, 1966 and US. Pat. No. 3,339,457 issued to L. Pun on Sept. 5, I967. The Lind patent discloses a naval anti-aircraft system which employs a rudimentary analog computer loop but which does not make any accurate determination of range. In fact, the Lind device uses a computing system which depends upon the approximation that sin is .equal to 0 where 0 is the lead angle. For modern aircraft, the computed lead angles can be as large as 30. The sin 0 approximation can thus have an error of as much as 4 percent or 20 milliradians. Since pointing errors should be less than 2 milliradians to achieve a reasonable probability of hit, the computer as described by Lind is necessarily incapable of the required accuracy. Additionally, Lind does not instrument or mechanize the computation of the ballistic function, but merely approximates it with various constants by which the computed kinematic function is multiplied. The Pun patent, on the other hand does detect an accurate range but, like McAdam, it uses in its preferred embodiment a laser which by its inherent characteristics cannot be operated at the rapid pulse repetition rate which can be achieved with a continuously operating laser and hence can not make continuous measurements of the range or rate of change of range of a rapidly moving target. Pum uses a visual telescope to point at the target but does not disclose the actual technique of such aiming or the accuracy achievable. in order to achieve the required pointing accuracy of 2 milliradians it can be shown that aided tracking is necessary. Furthermore, Pun uses a repetitive algorithm to determine flight time and consequently finds it necessary to utilize an extremely complex digital computer to control gun position. 
 It is therefore an object of this invention to provide a fire control system having a high degree of accuracy and reliability with respect not only to stationary tar- It is another object of this invention to provide such a system which overcomes the above-noted problems of the prior art. 
 It is another object of this invention to provide such a fire control system wherein continuously updated measurements of range of target and rate of change of range are made and are used in both novel tracking aid means and in a novel form of lead angle equation in order to provide greater tracking accuracy for repetitive gun fire and to simplify the mechanization of the computer solving the lead angle equations. 
 It is a further object of this invention to provide a fire control system having a unified gunner's sight assembly using common optical elements both for visual sighting and for a continuously operable laser transmitterreceiver. 
 It is yet another object of this invention to provide a fire control system in which provision for manual visual acquisition sighting by the gunner is combined with automatic tracking aid circuitry for targets which have been so acquired and yet permits the gunner to retain override and trim capability of said automatic tracking signals. 
 It is a still further object of this invention to provide such a fire control system using a solid state hybrid computer wherein the simplest, most accurate and most reliable circuits of either the analog or digital type are utilized in accordance with the particular function to be performed. 
 It is another object of this invention to provide a control unit including the sight, the laser, and the computer which is mounted on the gun platform in vibration isolated relationship thereto in order to maintain essential geometric angular relationships invariant. 
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The foregoing objects are achieved by the provision of specific circuits and features in an anti-aircraft fire control system which broadly consists of gun controls, gun servos, and power supplies which may be of any suitable conventional design together with the unique integrated sight-laser-computer comprising the control unit of the present .invention. Among the other principal features of novelty of the system are the use of an undisturbed or director sight with a servo system wherein implicit solutions of lead angle equations are generated by a computer loop including a feedback term from the gun servo resolver and with separate circuitry for providing computer aided tracking to the sight. A novel form .of lead angle equation is used to facilitate the above-noted implicit solution thereof. 
 The integrated sight-laser-computer control unit is packaged in a single assembly having as subassemblies a gunners sight .unit and an electronic unit. The gunner's sight unit contains the laser transmitter, the laser receiver, a visual telescope, the optics which combine the three functions, the mirror which points the optical axes to the target, and line of sight azimuth and elevation readout means for taking observations in a coordinate system having one of its axes always lying along the line of sight to the target. This gunners sight is preferably sealed and filled with dry gas to keep the optics clean. The electronic unit contains the electronics which power and control both the laser rangefinder and pointing of the mirror. It also contains the fire control computer which computes the lead angles necessary in azimuth and elevation and provides outputs to the servos which direct the guns fire. The electronics unit is the interface between the sight-laser-computer control unit and the remainder of the anti-aircraft fire control system. 
 In operation, the gunner uses his hand control to transmit azimuth and elevation slewing commands to the sight in order to visually acquire a target through the telescope. This only requires the gunner to keep the target within the 3 milliradian circle representing laser beam width. The gunner then activates the laser fire button and the tracking aid circuitry which is also included in the computer. These two functions are controlled by a single switch. The laser will continue to fire at a repetition rate of, for example, pulses per second or more as long as the laser firing button is held down. The computer processes the range and other input data and computes range rate. In the event that the laser beam misses the target or in the event that there is no return signal for any other reason, the computer uses the range rate data to update the last valid range measurement so that the aided tracking circuitry and the lead angle computation will continue to function even if the target goes behind a cloud. 
 The computer is preferably of the hybrid variety using both digital and solid state analog techniques. 
The computer solves the equation for gun elevation and azimuth lead angle and generates the pointing angle commands for the gun servos. Solution of the form of the equations used requires that the gun elevation angle, elevation rate, and azimuth rate be transmitted back to the computer. When a signal in the gunner's sight indicates that the gun has been servoed to the direction and range of the target being tracked the gunner opens repetitive fire of the anti-aircraft gun while continuing to track the target. The tracking circuitry is implemented on the assumption that the most likely path of the target will be given by a constant velocity vector. This assumption is obviously not always valid since the target may maneuver or change speed or direction. Hence, it has been found desirable to provide both additional quadrant error detecting circuitry and an override feature so that the commands generated by the tracking and quadrant circuits can be trimmed or completely modified by the gunners hand control as may appear to be necessary based on visual sighting by the gunner. The signals provided by the tracking and quadrant circuits, however, greatly reduce the control requirements imposed on the gunner and permit him to achieve greatly increased accuracy in supplying his trimming commands. 
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS The novel features of this invention, as well as the invention itself, both as to the organization and the method of operation, will best be understood from the accompanying drawings, taken in connection with the accompanying description, in which like reference characters refer to like parts and in which: 
 FIGS. la and lb are diagrams illustrating the geometrical relationships between certain vectors, angles, and coordinate systems discussed herein. 
 FIG. 2a is a diagramatic side elevational view showing the gunner's relationship to the control unit containing the integrated sight-laser-computer. 
 FIGS. 2b, 2c, and 2d are respectively side elevation, top, and end views showing the control unit housings in greater detail when dismounted from the gunner's seat and platform. 
 FIG. 3 is a broken away perspective view of a vibration isolation mount suitable for use in the system. 
 FIG. 4 is a block diagram of the anti-aircraft fire control system of the present invention. 
 FIG. 5 is a schematic layout diagram of the laser and optical elements within the gunners sight unit. 
 FIG. 6 is a diagramatic plan view of alternatively selectable visual reticles as they appear in the gunners visual telescope. 
 FIG. 7a is a block diagram of the quadrant tracker, the laser rangefinder, and other laser electronic functions. 
FIG. 7b is a diagram of the quadrant detector. 
FIG. 8 is a graph of range capability of the system. 
 FIG. 9a is a diagram illustrating the terms and three dimensional relationships of two of the coordinate systems used in the invention as related to the motion of the gimballed mirror. 
 FIGS. 9b, and 9c are circuit diagrams of tracking aid circuit configurations for performing necessary transformations between the two coordinate systems shown in FIG. 9a. 
 FIG. 9d is a circuit diagram of tracking aid circuitry having alternate relay positions, one of which results in the circuit of FIG. 9b and the other of which results in the circuit of FIG. 90. 
 FIG. 10 is a computational schematic for the system as a whole. 
 FIG. 11 is a functional computation diagram further illustrating details of certain of the computations performed in the computer shown as block 30 in FIG. I0. 
 FIG. 12a and 12b are circuit diagrams of the function generators shown in FIG. 11. 
 FIG. 13 is a block diagram showing details of the elevation tracking loop for sight servo control. 
 FIG. 14 is a block diagram showing details of the azimuth tracking loop for sight servo control. 
 FIG. 15 is a block diagram showing the relation between tracking aid, sight servo and gun servo mechanization circuitry respectively. 
 FIG. 16 is a block diagram of the gun elevation axis servo control. 
 FIG. 17 is a block diagram of the gun azimuth axis servo control. 
DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT" The anti-aircraft fire control system of this invention is suitable both for new weapons wherein the system and gun may be integrally designed for each other or for retrofit of existing weapons where improved perfonnance is desired. In order to minimize the number of components used and to increase the speed and accuracy of the preferred embodiment of such a system, the lead angle computations are implemented by utilizing a plural coordinate system and also utilizing a feedback term from the gun elevation axis servo to complete the solution. Characteristics of other major portions of the mechanization of the system are as follows. 
 The laser rangefinder is preferably of a neodymium- :YAG (yttrium, aluminum, garnet Y Al o type, for example, operating at at least 10 pulses per second. The detector of the laser receiver is divided into four separate but contiguous quadrant segments to provide a quadrant tracking signal capability. Such a rangefinder is capable of accurate, rapid and continuously updated measurements of range and rate of change of range. By contrast to radar tracking systems, it is nearly impossible to jam and has a low vulnerability to countermeasures. For the 20 millimeter gun used in the preferred embodiment herein a-full scale laser range of 3,000 meters is provided. For larger weapons the measurable range can be increased to 4.000 or 5.000 meters. 
 The gunners sight includes an optical telescope having alternate lens selections to provide a 40 field of view at 1.5 power magnification for acquisition which is changeable to a field of view at 6 power magnification for tracking. The visual sight and the laser transmitter-receiver share common optical elements terminating in a single servo positioned mirror so that no separate boresighting or alignment is required. Reticles are provided for the 10 field of view and for the 3 milliradian laser beam. The gunners sight is also provided with an excess gun pointing error warning signal. The system is of course suitable for use against ground as well as air targets. 
 The tracking aid circuitry shown in FIGS. 9b, 9c 9d, 13 and 14 is such as to provide full automatic track of a constant velocity vector target. However, provision is also made for inclusion of the quadrant detector error signals and for the gunner to retain override and trim capability to adjust for a maneuvering target. The target circuitry will continue to output correct rates even if the target is obscured. The primary function of the tracking aid circuitry, however, is to simplify the gunners task. The principal requirement on the gunner is that he place the laser beam recticle on the target. 
 The computer disclosed herein is of the hybrid type utilizing both digital and solid state analog mechanization, and has sufficiently complete capability so that computations or estimates are not required from the gunner. The computer derives smoothed range and range rate information from inputs obtained from the laser and simultaneously solves three lead angle equations. Provision is also made in the mechanization to adjust for nonstandard conditions and for different ammunitions. The computer provides pointing commands to the gun servos derived from its real time implicit solution of the above-noted equations. Physically, the computer is integrated into the control unit electronics package. 
 In the preferred embodiment of the system, the lead angles are generated in the computer. Further, it is preferred to drive the sight unit as a rate servo and to slave the gun to follow the sight angles plus the computed lead angles. This is a "director sight" mechanization or a nondisturbed sight system. In certain of the abovenoted prior art devices, the gun is driven as a rate servo and the sight is slaved to follow the gun angle plus computed lead angles. Such a disturbed sight" mechanization is not as fast or flexible in its response to moving or maneuvering targets due to the inertia considerations involved. That is, in any anti-aircraft fire control system it is necessary to acquire the target before obtaining any range data. lf a disturbed sight is used, the time lags and oscillations of the gun servos in both azimuth and elevation will generate inputs to the sight servos, making acquisition and tracking difficult. Using a director sight of the type disclosed herein makes acquierror. Tachometer feedback is preferably used to increase the damping and provide control of dynamic response. The lead angle error is continuously measured and compared with a reference so that whenever the error has a predetermined magnitude, a warning (such as red background lighting of the sighting recticles) may be displayed to the gunner. The gunner can then continue to track the target and wait for the error to diminish before opening fire. 
 The foregoing type of mechanization characteristics can be achieved in a system utilizing the mathematical formulation of lead angle equations set forth below which in turn assumes that the following two conditions can be achieved, as in fact they can be. 
 1. If corrections for the effects of nonstandard atmosphere, winds or projectile drift and jump are deemed necessary, an implementation using differential corrections to the solution not accounting for these effects can be made. 
 2. Projectile trajectory parameters can be computed as simple functions of range to target intercept. 
 It is shown below that with ajudicious choice of coordinate geometry certain approximations can be made that lead to a relatively simple set of mechanization equations and solution procedures. Although the solution is necessarily approximate, the nature of the approximations are such that the solution will be sufficiently accurate to meet the system requirements set forth above. I 
 For our present purposes, it is assumed that the antiaircraft gun platform is both stationary and level. The solution procedure is valid more generally with the exception that additional resolutions must be made through the gun pitch and roll angles since the projectile ballistics are referenced to the local gravity directions. 
 Several coordinate systems are necessary for introducing the various measured parameters and ballistics into the basic fire control equations. These coordinate systems are defined below and the relationships between them are shown schematically in FIG. la and in FIG. 9a. 
1. Local level coordinates (x, y, z) 
 The local level (or gun platform) coordinates are defined with the 2,, axis being positive down and being directed along the local gravitational vector. The direction in the horizontal plane of the x, axis is arbitrarily chosen to provide a geographically fixed zero reference point for azimuth angle measurements. The y axis fonns a mutually orthogonal right-hand set with the 2 and x, axes. The gun, G, and gunners sight, for present purposes, are assumed to lie at the same point which is taken as the origin, 0, of all 'sets of coordinates. 
2. LOS coordinates (R, E, D) 
 The line of sight coordinates are defined so that the R axis always points from the origin to the target. These coordinates are thus not fixed in position, but move with the target. They are related to the x, y, z coordinates by a rotation about the y axis through the elevation sight angle 6, and by a rotation about the 2,, axis through an azimuth angle 1;. See FIG. 9a for illustration of their three dimensional relations. For the sake of clarity only the illustration used in the mathematical derivation of the lead angle equations as seen in FIG. Ia shows the special case where a target having a posiition T at a time t (which is the instant the gun is fired), its velocity vector V the gun G and the target shell intercept point, I, all lie in the x,,-z, plane so that the azimuth angle 17 is zero. Of course the derivation itself treats the general case including provision for any deordinates are related to the intercept coordinates by the ballistic lead angles. Since all such lead angles except-superelevation 6,, are to be handled by differential correction, they need not be included in the derivation of the basic fire control equations. 
 Under these conditions, then, the coordinate transformation between .t, y, z coordinates and weapon line coordinates is as shown in Table I. It should be noted that the first identity assumes that the azimuth angle 6 is zero, as was noted above in the discussion of LOS coordinates. 
TABLE I.COORDINATE TRANSFORMATION MATRICES gree of azimuth deflection 17 as illustrated in FIG. 9a. This R, E, D coordinate system is then related to the x, y system by the relations set forth in Table I below. In FIG. la a unit vector is shown lying along the R axis and the D axis which is orthogonal to it. The E axis in FIG. la would coincide with the y, axis since i is assumed to be zero. Similar unit vectors are indicated along the R,, D, and R,, D axes to be discussed below. Also similarly, E, and E will lie along y in FIG. la. 
3. Intercept coordinates (R,, E,, D,) 
 These coordinates are defined similarly to the R, E, D coordinates with the R, axis pointing toward the predicted intercept point, I, which is the point where the targets projected velocity vector intersects the predicted trajectory of a shell fired by gun G along a firing direction F. This coordinate system is related to the x, y system by the intercept azimuth and elevation angles, 1,, and 6,. The appropriate coordinate transformation is fet forth in Table I below. 
4. Weapon line coordinates (R,,-, E,,-, D,,-) 
 The weapon line coordinates are defined so that the R,,- axis points in the direction the gun must be fired to intercept the target T at the intercept point I if the tar- ,get maintains a constant velocity vector V These co- Using the above coordinate systems, the tire control equations can be derived from a basic vector miss equation of the form Eq. I. MISS=IFUTURE TARGET POSITION] [SHELL BALLISTIC POSITION] The future target position a function of the presently measured target position R, the sensed target motion, and the time of flight, T,, of the shell from firing time to the predicted intercept point, I. The ballistic position is a function (through the ballistic equations of motion) of the firing direction and the time of flight. A solution of the fire control problem then is represented by a firing direction and a time of flight that results in a zero miss. Such a solution can be found if one exists, by setting the three components of vector miss in Equation 1 to zero and solving the resulting equation for time of flight and the gun positioning direction. 
 In order to implement the solution it is necessary to represent the remaining vectors in Equation l in terms of measurable or computable parameters. This can be accomplished by proceeding in two steps as follows. 
 First, consider future target position. The standard assumption for predicting the future target position is that the aircraft is moving with constant velocity. For high speed projectiles with low flight times to intercept this is an adequate representation for moderately maneuvering targets. If the aircraft is taking evasive action it does not appear that any better assumption can be made since then the future aircraft position does not necessarily depend on and cannot be predicted on the basis of past data, the only information available. For this reason the assumption of constant target velocity will be used throughout these derivations. 
 If V, is the aircraft velocity as shown in FIG. 1a the future position at intercept denoted R, can be written Since the aircraft position and veloeity parameters will be measured in R, E, D (line of sight) coordinates it is necessary to express this equation in these coordinates. First, by definition, 
Where the parameters R (laser measured range), 00,, and 00,, (rate sensor measured) are measured as described in detail below in connection with FIG. 9a. The range rate R is computed from the time history of the range. 
 Substituting equation 5 into equation 2 gives the desired result. Eq. 6 R1 R T!) [R (Raw [5 Rwy In) T Secondly, consider the shells ballistic position. Since the drift due to the projectile spin is small, any inclusion of this effect can be made as a correction to the solution for a planar trajectory. For the purposes of deriving a valid set of fire control equations, the position of the projectile or shell along a trajectory will be described in oblique coordinates as shown in FIG. la. The 
position of the shell at intercept can then be written. Eq. 7 R, B 
Where the magnitude of F is the displacement of the projectile from the gun in the firing direction 1 and the magnitude of B, referred to as ballistic drop, is a displacement in the vertical direction that measures the trajectory curvature. Equation 7 can be written in the form Eq. 8. g R,=FI,, +B 1, g Where I, is a unit vector pointing down and 1,,- is the unit vector pointing in the direction of the weapon firing line. 
 Equations 8 and 6 can now be combined into Equation I with the miss vectory set to zero to obtain the basic vector fire control equation. 
Eq. 9. Fi;,,+BT, R+RT,)l1+RT,w,,T,,Rm,,-E, 
 In general, the trajectory parameters F and B are functions of the time of flight T, and the gun elevation angle, 5,, which is equal to the algebraic sum of the intercept elevation angle 6, and the superelevation 6 The normal procedure for solving the fire control problems is to express the vector Equation 9 in terms of the three component equations in R, E, D coordinates tion. However, for an analog or hybrid mechanization a simpler set of approximate equations can be derived to provide faster response at less cost and with greater reliability. 
 The first step in the derivation is to replace the ballistic parameters F and B in Equation 9 with the range to intercept R, and the superelevation angle 6,. The second step is to derive a good approximate procedure for introducing the ballistic superelevation and time of flight in terms of the available parameters. 
 Referring to FIG. lb and using the law of sines, the following relationships may be derived. 
Eq. l0. F cos (e,+6,,) R, cos 6, Eq. ll. B cos (6,+e,,) R, sin 60 Combining these relationships with Equations 6 and 7 and expressing the vector equation in terms of components in gun coordinates R,,-, E,,-, D results in the equation. 
Where the notation [a],- is used to denote a matrix which effects a transformation of vector components due to a coordinate rotation about the axis [(x l y=2, z=3) through the angle a. 
 Since the required gun gimbal angles are 1/, and (6,+6,,), this equation suggests the possibility of driving the gun azimuth gimbal angle (1 to force the second component to zero and driving the gun elevation angle (6,, 6,) until the third component is equal to R, sin 6,. Also, since the superelevation angle 6,, is known to be a small angle, the approximations Eq. 13. R, cos 6,, 2 R, Eq. 14. R, sin 6,, z 6,, R, may be used. 
 Thus, the gun elevation gimbal pickoff can directly give the computed value of R, and is included in the computation loop. Equation 12 then, along with the approximations l3 and l4 define the basic fire control equations. 
 Consider now the ballistic function mechanization. If the gun is to be effective as an anti-aircraft weapon, the projectile must have a high velocity in the range of operation and hence relatively a small time of flight. Thus the trajectory will be relatively flat, i.e., the curvature will not be large. This observation suggests the applicability of the classical Siacci approximation to the projectile equation of motion. These .-approximations in their classical sense are more fully dealt with in a book by E. .l. McShane, J. L. Kelley, and F. U. Remo entitled Exterior Ballistics published by the University of Denver Press in 1953. This procedure results in an accurate approximation to the ballistic trajectory. However, it is not here proposed that the ballistics be computed with the Siacci method, but rather that use of the results of the method yields, after some manipulation, good functional relationships that can be used to define the form of the ballistics mechanization. It is thus that the value of initially expressing the trajectory in oblique coordinates (F and B parameters) becomes apparent. When the Siacci method is applied in these coordinates the time of flight T, and the ballistic drop B becomes functions of F only, or equivalently, F and B are functions of time of flight T, only (see Exterior Ballistics pp. 270-273 Using this fact, the superelevation e, and the time of flight T,can be related to the range at intercept R, by mechanizing only the functions corresponding to the case where the target is at the same altitude as the gun. This is accomplished as follows. 
 Find the range R, where in the coaltitude case T, is the same as in the actual case. This implies that F and B will be the same since they are assumed ,to be functions of T, only. If 6,, is the superelevation corresponding to R, the following equations, equivalent to Equation and 11 above hold: 
Eq. 15. F cos (6, R, cos 6, Eq. 16. B cos (6, 6,) R, sin 6,, Eq. 17.. F cos 6,, R, 
Eq. 18. B cos 6,, R, sin 6,, 
Clearly, by dividing 16 by and 18 by 17, 
Eq. 19 B/F sin e lcos 6, sin 6,, 
Then the computation of 6,, is given by, 
Eq. 20. sin 6,, cos 6, sin 6,, 
Where 6,, .is a function of R or T,. it remains to find R From 17 and 15 Eq. 21. R,,=Fcos 6,, =R, cos 6, cos 6,,'/cos (6,+6,,) 
Combining Equations 20 and 21 and making small angle approximations to the effect that cos 6,, E 1, cos 6,, '1, and sin 6,, E eo then gives, 
The term 6,, sin 6, need not be included, since it is a relatively small term. 
 The fire control equations used herein are a combination of Equations 12 and 20 along with the appropriate function generators for computing T, and 6 These functions are found by standard curve fitting procedures to actual firing tables as described in detail below. 
 In component form, the equations can be written as follows where quantities A and C have the stated identity definitions. 
Eq. 23. A 3 (R RT,) cos 6, Rm, sin 6, 
Eq. 24. C (R 1 2%) sin 6, RTflJ cos 6, 
Eq. 25. R, (A cos :1, RT w sin 1 cos (6,,+6,) C sin (6,, 6,) 
Eq. 26. O -A sin v, RTflJ cos :1, 
Eq. 27. O (A cos v, RTm sin v,) sin (6,, 6,) 
Ccos(6,,+6,)6,,.R, In the foregoing Equations 25 26 and 27, which are the three simultaneous lead angle equations mechanized for real time solution as shown in detail below, it 
should be noted that the superelevation where 6,, and T, are generated as functions of R,. 
 In discussing the functioning of actual apparatus hereinafter in connection with FIG. 2 through FIG. 17 certain equivalencies in notation will be used to distinguish angles, values and quantities in the specific case of actual apparatus from coordinate names of quantities used in the general derivation above. Thus, actual specific values of range to intercept will be referred to as R, rather than the coordinate or vector notation R,, the actual gun azimuth angle will be referred to as 1 rather than v, which is the value that v, must have when a correct solution of the lead angle equations has been achieved and the gun positioned in accordance therewith; similarly the'actual gun elevation angle will be referred to as 6, rather than (6, 6,). 
Turning now to FIGS. 2a through 2d, the structural details of the packaging and positioning of a control unit 20 used in apparatus for implementing and mechanizing the foregoing concepts and relations will be described. A conventional rotatable gun mounting platform 10 also supports the gunner and the control unit 20 for rotation with a conventional anti-aircraft gun G, shown diagrammatically only. The gunner occupies a chair or seat 11 of any suitable design which is mounted on a vibration isolation unit 12 which in turn is mounted on the gun platform 10. A footrest 13 is also provided and is mounted on platform 10. The sighting unit and electronics unit housings are mounted on a vibration isolation unit 14 which in turn is mounted on the gun platform 10. A power supply package 15 containing any suitable conventional power supply is also positioned on gun platform 10. The gunner and control unit 20 are positioned directly in back of the gun on platform 10. 
 The vibration isolation unit 14 operates on the principle illustrated in FIG. 3 in which a cup-shaped housing 60 is shown rigidly mounted to the rotatable and vibration-generating gun platform 10. it will, of course, be understood that the front wall of the cup-shaped member 60 has been broken away for purposes of clarity of illustration, but that in practice the generally cupshaped member 60 is open at the top so that the member to be supported may be mounted by a pedestal or any other convenient means to a centrally positioned block 61. Thus, in the isolation unit 14 the control unit 20 is directly attached to a member such as the block 61, which in turn is supported from the cup-shaped member 60 by five metal bellows members 62, 63, 64, 65 and 66, respectively. The ends of each bellows member are respectively fastened, one end to the central block 61 and the other end to the outer rigid cup member 60. Within each bellows member is a stiff spring member such as the springs 62a, 64a, and 65a, respectively. The springs are also attached at opposite ends to the block 61 and the cup member 60. Additionally, each bellows member is sealed and is provided with an air inlet, such as the passage 6512, which is closed by a threaded valve and cap member 656. The air leakage rate from each bellows member can thus be adjusted at 65c to any desired value by the leakage from the threads of the cap member 65c functioning as a valve, thereby controlling the amount of damping present in the system. 
 The purpose of the vibration isolation unit is primarily to maintain the orthogonal or perpendicular relationship between the vertical axis indicated by the arrow 66a rising upwardly from block 61 and the plane of the gun platform 10 as a rigidly unchanged angle in spite of providing damping for translational vibrations of the platform 10. That is to say, the arrangement constitutes a shock absorber which will permit damped vibration along the axes represented by the longitudinal axis of any one of the bellows-spring combinations in response to vibrations of the platform 10, but will eliminate any rotational component of motion about these axes. This desired result arises from the fact that the bellows structure has inherent in its nature a considerable give or spring axially of its length as the folds of the bellows expand or contract. However, the bellows structure is made of a metal such that the bellows is wholly resistant to any expected torsional or twisting forces tending to produce rotation about its axis. Since no one of the bellows members can be twisted, all components of torsional or rotational motion are eliminated, even though the arrangement does serve as a shock absorber to permit damped translational motion to absorb the energy resulting from vibration of the platform as the gun fires. Preferably, since the firing repetition rate of the gun is at a frequency which is preselectable, the structure of the isolation unit, together with the air leakage rate established at any given time, will be such as to detune the vibration isolator from resonance at the same frequency as the frequency of the expected source of vibrations, that is, the repetition gun firing frequency. 
 It will, of course, be understood that the showing of the housing 14 in FIG. 1 is diagrammatic only and that any suitable pedestal arrangement may be used to mount the control unit 20 to the interior block member of its associated vibration isolation unit of the type shown in FIG. 3. It is assumed, however, that the mounting will be such that the vertical arrow 66a in FIG. 3 will lie along the direction of the local gravitational vector so that it represents the vertical 2., axis in the inertial coordinate system in which the gun platform 10 while at rest is in the x -y or horizontal plane. 
 Referring again to FIGS. 2a, 2b, and 5, the optical sighting control unit 20 is used by the gunner to acquire a line of sight, LOS, on a target T along coordinate R by rotating gimballed mirror 46 in response to signals generated by hand control unit 26a positioned on platform 10 within easy reach of the gunner. It will be noted that the structure and the position of biocular 17-18 is such that in use the gunners head is erect. This is more comfortable for the gunner and results in less disorientation when rapidly slewing in azimuth. 
 The control unit 20 is shown in greater detail in FIG. 2b, 2c, and 2d and comprises a gunner's sight housing 16 which is provided with a biocular pair comprising first and second visual telescope eye-pieces 17 and 18 positioned as noted for convenient visual access by the gunner. A gunner's headrest 19 is provided adjacent to the eyepieces. Adjacent to the eyepieces and mounted on the housing 16 is a lever 21 connected inside the housing to a slideable mirror block in the visual telescope so as to permit the gunner to select either of the two above-noted magnifications and field of view lens choices for the telescope. Sliding mirror block 50 is shown in FIG. 5. The magnification selector lever 21 is of course mounted to be within easy reach of the gun ner. 
 The housing 16 of the gunner's sight unit contains the visual telescope for optical sighting, the laser transmitter-receiver range unit, and the optical elements permitting these units to establish a common line of sight, LOS, at the target along and (when on target) coincident with coordinate R through a window 22 in the gunners sight unit 16. The gunners sight unit 16 is also provided with a vent 23 for air cooling of the equipment. Access to the flash tube of the laser may be had through a door 24 in housing 16. 
 The electronics unit housing 25 forms a continuation of the gunners sight unit housing 16 and contains the fire control computer and the laser electronics. The housing 25 is provided with an external control panel 26 containing various controls which will be described in detail below. Housing 16 is mounted on housing 25 which in turn is mounted on the center block of the vibration isolation unit 14 which in turn is mounted on the rotatable gun platform 10. The power supply is positioned so as to be readily connected to the equipment in the electronics unit 25. As may be best seen in FIG. 2a, the gunners sight unit 16 and electronics unit 25 which comprise the sighting unit 20 are provided with a protective shield 27 which also serves to afford protection to the gunner. Of course the shield 27 is provided with a suitable aperture for alignment with window 22 for sighting purposes so that the gunner may establish a line of sight (LOS) on the target T. 
 In FIG. 4 there is shown an overall block diagram of the system. From FIG. 4 it will be seen that the control unit 20 receives hand control signals orslewing commands to the gimballed mirror in the sight which are generated by the gunner by means of a control stick 26a with potentiometer pickoffs. This may, for example, be a Cadillac Gage type unit similar to those used for tank fire control. Controls on panel 26 (FIG. 2b) are available to the gunner for setting in nonstandard conditions such as ammunition being used, gun wear, atmospheric conditions and the like. The settings of the nonstandard conditions are applied directly to the solid state computer 30 which is contained in the electronics unit 25. The laser 29 and the optical sight and servo 28 'are contained in the gunner's sight unit housing 16. 
 In response to signals generated by the computer 30 shown in FIG. 4, conventional anti-aircraft gun servos 31 control an anti-aircraft gun G which is mounted on the platform 10. Thus. line 33 applies an elevation command to the servos 31, line 34 applies an azimuth command, and line 35 applies an error comparison reference voltage to the gun servos. Feedback signals from the gun servos are in turn supplied to the computer 30. Thus, line 36 carries an elevation feedback signal from a tachometer, line 37 carries an azimuth feedback signal from a second tachometer (both of these signals of course being measures of rate of change of elevation and azimuth respectively), and line 38 carries signals which are representative of the actual elevation and azimuth angles of the gun and which are derived from a conventional synchro-type resolver associated with the gun servos. 
 The details of the arrangement of the optical sight and sight servos 28 and the laser 29 in the gunner's sight unit housing 16 are diagrammatically shown in FIG/ 5. It will be noted that the laser transmitter 29a and the laser receiver 29b are positioned adjacent to each other. The laser output beam is transmitted through a prism 40 (which turns the beam by to a beam expanding lens 41 which is positioned at the center of a silvered mirror 42. The silvered mirror 42 is positioned at a 45 angle to the axis of the light beam 43 which is transmitted in the forward direction through the beam expanding lens 41, through a dichroic mirror (which is transparent tothe laser beam in the forward direction) 44 and through the lens system 45 which also constitutes the narrow field of view objective lens for the gunners visual telescope. Lens system 45 is optically designed to produce a 3 milliradian laser output beam. 
 Beam 43 thereafter impinges on the gimballed mirror 46 and is reflected from mirror 46 out of window 22 in housing 16 and along the line of sight to the target. The gimballed mirror 46 is controlled as to rotational position about two axes which are shown in greater detail in FIG. 9a by torquers of any conventional type wellknown in the art in responseto signals provided as above-described. 
When the laser beam 43 strikes a reflective target a portion of its light energy is returned along the line of sight and is reflected by gimballed mirror 46 through lens system 45, through the dichroic mirror 44 and onto the reflecting surface of the silvered mirror 42. Dichroic mirror 44, of course, is selected to be of the type which transmits light of or near the wavelengths emitted by the laser and reflects all other wavelengths. Most of the return signal is thus transmitted to silvered mirror 42 and thence along a path 48 to the laser receiver 29b. 
 The gunners visual telescopic sighting system includes the eyepiece assemblies 17 and 18 respectively (which are adapted for biocular vision along a single line of sight by conventional prism arrangements including a derotation prism 49) and the slideably positioned dual mirror block 50 which is under .control of the magnification selector 21 projecting out of housing 16. In the position shown one of the mirrors on dual mirror block 50 completes an optical path through fixed mirror 50a, relay lens 59a, the wide field of view objective lens system 47, to a fixed mirror 52, and thence on to the gimballed mirror 46 for reflection along the line of sight. [f the mirror block 50 is positioned to the left of the position shown in FlG. 4, its other mirror surface will direct the gunners or observers sight via fixed mirror 50b rather than via fixed mirror 50a. The line of sight from fixed mirror 50b, of course, leads via relay lens 58a through dichroic mirror 44 to the narrow field objective lens system 45 and then on to the gimballed mirror 46 and out along the line of sight. The fact that the magnification selector 21 manually shifts the prismatically shaped mirror block 50 through a relatively short path of travel permits the gunner to change the magnification without interrupting his continuous view of the target. An eye protection filter 52 positioned between the mirror block 50 and the derotation prism 49 pr events any laser light which may have accidentally reached the mirror block 50 from being transmitted through the binoculars so that the gunners eyes are protected from damage. 
 As seen in diagrammatic plan views in FIG. 6, the preferred reticle systems for the two fields of view are respectively configured as at 58 for the narrow field of view and 59 for the wide field of view. Relay lenses 58a and 59a are associated with the respective reticles and may be used to also transmit backlighting for them in any conventional manner. It will be noticed that the wide field of view optics have a magnification of 1.5 to l and a field of view of 40. The reticle for this telescope has a 10 circle at its center (see FIG. 6) which corresponds to the size of the full field on the narrow field of view optics. Once the target is inside this inner circle of the wide field of view. the sliding mirror 50 is moved by the magnification selector 21 to bring the narrow field of view telescopic path into use. The narrow field of view optics have a 10 field of view and a magnification of 6 to l. The product of magnification times field of view is thus, and should be, a constant which in this case has a value of 60 for either telescope. The reticle for the 10 field consists of several sizes of circles, the smallest being 3 milliradians in diameter. The gunner tracks the target by centering the three milliradian circle on it. The laser rangefinder optics share the narrow field of view objective lens so that the combined functions can be simultaneously boresighted and will remain in exact optical alignment with one another. The dichroic mirror reflects all the visual light, but allows the infrared laser light to pass through. Laser light from the transmitter passes through the diverging lens and the objective lens which together form a Galilean telescope. This telescope forms the three milliradian laser beam. Laser light which returns from the target is reflected from the silvered mirror 42 and passes through the receiver field stop 51 to the laser receiver 29b. A small but insignificant fraction of the return light is lost through the hole in the center of the silvered mirror mounting lens 41. The field stop 51 is a small hole which corresponds exactly to the 3 milliradian circle in the visual optics. In this fashion the three optical axes, that is, the axis of the tracking telescope, the laser transmitter axis, and the laser receiver axis are permanently aligned. 
 The laser transmitter 29a is preferably a continuously operable type such as a neodymiumzYAG unit which uses a closed cycle, dry gas cooling scheme completely free from the problems associated with all liquid cooling systems. This laser produces light having a wavelength of L06 microns, is capable of a pulse repetition rate of 10 pulses or more per second and has a beam width of 3 milliradians. The laser receiver 29b is provided with four independent detectors arranged in a quadrant as shown in FIG. 7b so that tracking data can be derived in a manner to be explained below. The detectors are preferably separate photodiodes and should of course be such as to have their peak sensitivity at or near the wavelength of the light of the particular laser being used. 
 Since both the wide and narrow field of view include the gimballed telescopes mirror 46 in their paths for selecting the varying the line of sight, both have the same response characteristics for tracking. In a preferred embodiment the maximum elevation tracking rate was 55 per second whereas the maximum azimuth tracking rate was per second. 
 In operation the gunner first activates the power supply 15 which, in a preferred embodiment is capable of an output of 300 to 600 watts, and then uses his hand controls 26a to transmit azimuth and elevation slewing commands to the torquers 72 and 73 controlling the gimballed mirror 46 in the sight unit as shown, for example, in FIG. 9a and in FIG. 15. This initial phase only requires the gunner to keep the target within the 3 milliradian circle. When this circle is on target, the gunner activates a laser fire button which starts operation of the laser transmitter 29a, laser receiver 29b and the tracking circuits contained in the computer 30. Activation of these functions is accomplished by a single switch 152 positioned on the gunners hand control 26a. The laser will continue to fire at a repetition rate of 10 pulses per second as long as the firing button is held down. In the event that the laser beam misses the target or if forany other reason there is no return laser signal, the computer uses range rate data previously obtained and stored to update the last valid range measurement. The computer then solves the equations for gun elevation and azimuth lead angle and sends pointing angle commands to the gun servos 31 of FIG. 4 which are shown in detail at of FIG. 16 and 110a of FIG. 17. 
 The laser rangefinder 29, of course, measures the range to target T by sending out a light pulse from laser transmitter 29a and counting the elapsed time until the pulse is reflected from the target and returned to the laser receiver 29b. This is actually done in a subportion 30a of computer 30 by gating computer clock pulses into a digital counter in a manner well-known in the art as indicated in detail in FIG. 7a. Each laser pulse is a separate and independent range measurement. With a repetition rate of pulses per second, range data is acquired at a rate of ten range measurements each second. Computer 30a also calculates smoothed range and range rate, and quadrant track information. The laser rangefinder is reliable and trouble free; it will run continuously at ten pulses per second for many hours without maintenance. Unlike radar, it is nearly impossible tojam. Range computer 30a has outputs which are digital values of R and R which are applied to other circuitry in fire control computer 30 as shown in FIG. 11. 
 The most important aspect of the performance of the laser rangefinder is its maximum range capability which is shown in the graph of FIG. 8. The maximum range is the distance to which the rangefinder will detect a given target with a given single-shot detection probabil ity, usually 99 percent. The maximum range capability is a function of atmospheric conditions. This is shown in FIG. 8, where the maximum range is graphed as a function of the meteorological range. The meteorological range is that distance over which contrast transmittance in the visible region of the spectrum is reduced to -2 percent. The meteorological range is the maximum distance at which a small, low contrast target can be detected by the human eye. Therefore, from the graph we see that the laser rangefinder will range to any visible target out to 4,000 meters and to 10,000 meters under clear weather conditions. The range accuracy at a clock frequency'of 60 megahertz is i 2.5 meters and is independent of magnitude of range. 
 The laser receiver 29b consists of four electrically independent detectors arranged in a quadrant pattern as illustrated in FIG. 7b. Each detector is a light sensitive diode large enough to provide a separate output if it is illuminated by the return light pulse. The sensitivity of a detector is such that a change in output can be observed when approximately 50 percent of the area is illuminated. With a total beam width of 3 milliradians, this is an equivalent sensitivity of approximately threefourths of a milliradian. The quadrant logic circuitry 52 is designed to convert the detector signals to line of sight position error commands for use in the automatic tracking circuits supplying signals to the sight servo torquers. 
 The quadrant pattern illustrated in FIG. 7b provides four independent signals to logic circuitry 52. These signals are combined to provide the logical drive commands to the sight sensor. For example, the combination of outputs from detectors 1 and 2, and no outputs from detectors 3 and 4 result in a Ae, command (the sight line is too low, and must be elevated). If there is only an output from detector 1, then not only will there be a A, command, but also a -Av, command (the sight line must be rotated to the left). All of the possible combinations are included in logic circuit 52 by techniques well-known in the digital logic circuit art. 
 FIG. 7a shows the signal flow used to output range and range rate information. The outputs of the four laser detector quadrants are supplied in parallel to the conventional time measuring and range computation circuitry in computer 30a the output of which, as noted above, is a digital value of range R which is supplied to a range storage register 55. The outputs of the four quadrant detectors are also supplied to NOR gate 53 which controls the clock gate 54 so that clock signals are not applied to shift register 55 if no detector has an output signal. When there is a return signal, i.e., an output from any detector, values of range are read out of register 55 and are supplied to range rate logic circuitry 56 which uses an algorithm to compute a smoothed value of rate of change of range and supplies it as an input to the missed returns logic circuitry 57. The actual value of the last valid measurement of range itself is also supplied to the missed return logic circuitry 57. When it detects a missed return it outputs the last valid value of range plus R A t. That is to say, if a valid present return signal is not present in 57, standard logic circuits are used to provide an output in accordance with the equation R R RAt. Thus the outputs of circuitry 57 are the current projected values of range and rate of change of range based on the assumption that the target has maintained a constant velocity vector since the last valid reading of range based on actual laser return measurement. Transients in lead angle computation are thereby avoided. 
 The laser derived range signal is available as an analog voltage and can be differentiated. Because differentiation tends to accentuate any noise which may be present in the measurements, smoothing of the derivative is necessary. This can be done by fitting a straight line to the last five values of R (available in the digital domain at 0. l sec intervals) according to a least square criterion. The initial delay is then 0.5 sec, and subsequent outputs appear at 0.! sec intervals. 
 The smoothing algorithm used in circuit 56 is derived as follows. If measurements Y, are recorded every 6! seconds, then the deviation of the straight line y H- 17W from the i" measurment is Minimizing E with respect to a and b gives these become 4 10a+306tb= 2 iY.- 
Solving for b yields