Low supply current RMS-to-DC converter 
US-7002394-B1
Analog Devices, Inc.
2006-02-21
https://patents.google.com/patent/US7002394B1/en
This application is a continuation of prior application Ser. No. 09/256,640, filed Feb. 24, 1999 now U.S. Pat. No. 6,172,549.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
The present invention relates generally to RMS-to-DC converters, and more particularly, to RMS-to-DC converters that are capable of measuring true power at high frequencies and low supply currents.
This application is related to co-pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09/245,051 titled “RMS-To-DC Converter With Balanced Multi-Tanh Triplet Squaring Cells” filed Feb. 4, 1999 which is incorporated herein by reference.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
The present invention utilizes two balanced squaring cells operating in opposition to implement the difference of squares function, thereby achieving true RMS-to-DC conversion. By implementing the squaring cells as simple three transistor cells, each having a grounded base transistor and a two-transistor current mirror, an RMS-to-DC converter in accordance with the present invention can operate at microwave frequencies while dissipating as little as 1 mW of quiescent power in these cells.
One of the squaring cells receives the high frequency (HF) input signal and generates a first current which represents the square of the HF input signal. The other squaring cell generates a second current that represents the square of a DC feedback current which is input to the cell.
Used as a measurement device, a nulling circuit closes a feedback loop around the DC squaring cell so as to balance the output currents from the squaring cells. This path includes a filter capacitor for low-pass filtering the output signal from the HF squaring cell, an error amplifier for sensing the difference between the output currents from the squaring cells, and a circuit for converting the output from the error amplifier to a feedback current for driving the DC squaring cell. The error amplifier includes a balanced resistive load for converting the currents from the squaring cells to voltages, and an op-amp for sensing the resulting voltage difference. In a preferred embodiment, a nonlinear load is used to extend the dynamic range of the squaring cells.
Each of the squaring cells includes a grounded base transistor and a current mirror. The grounded base transistor has its base anchored at a suitable bias voltage. The emitter of the grounded base transistor and the input terminal of the current mirror are connected together at the input terminal of the squaring cell. The collector of the grounded base transistor and the output of the current mirror are connected together at the output terminal of the squaring cell to generate the output current which approximates the square of the input signal.
The squaring cell provides a good square-law approximation over an input signal range that is largely determined by the thermal voltage VT=kT/q. The input node of a squaring cell according to the present invention appears as a broad-band matching network to an external signal source, thereby terminating the generator without the need for an external termination resistor. The bias current through the squaring cells determines this input impedance. The two squaring cells are balanced by careful device matching and layout techniques. In a preferred embodiment, the HF cell is implemented as two parallel-connected cells which are physically located on opposite sides of the DC squaring cell to cancel effects from doping and thermal gradients. Using a single bias voltage for all of the cells further insures a high degree of balance between the two cells.
The output signal is obtained by replicating the current flowing into the input cell through a feedback interface; this current is unidirectional, that is, its sign is independent of the sign of the input current presented to the first squaring cell. The replicated current is converted to a voltage and buffered to provide substantial load driving capability even though quiescent current consumption is low.

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 FIG. 1 is a schematic diagram of a first embodiment of a squaring cell in accordance with the present invention.
 FIG. 2 is a graph showing the output function of the circuit of FIG. 1.
 FIG. 3 is a schematic diagram of an embodiment of an RMS-to-DC converter in accordance with the present invention.
 FIG. 4 is a schematic diagram of another embodiment of a squaring cell in accordance with the present invention.
 FIG. 5 is a schematic diagram of an embodiment of a squaring cell utilizing inductors in accordance with the present invention.
 FIG. 6 is a schematic diagram of an embodiment of a squaring cell utilizing overlapping emitter-degenerated and fully translinear transistors in accordance with the present invention.
 FIG. 7 is a schematic diagram of an embodiment of two cross-quadded squaring cells in accordance with the present invention.
 FIG. 8 shows the cross-quad layout of the squaring cells of FIG. 7.
 FIG. 9 shows the layout of two balanced squaring cells in accordance with the present invention in which one of the squaring cells is implemented as two parallel-connected cells that are arranged on opposite sides of the other squaring cell.
 FIG. 10 is a schematic diagram of a practical embodiment of a nulling circuit and output buffer in accordance with the present invention.
 FIG. 11 is a schematic diagram of a practical embodiment of a bias voltage generator in accordance with the present invention.
 FIGS. 12–15 are graphs showing simulation results for the circuit of FIG. 1.
 FIGS. 16–17 are graphs showing simulation results for the circuit of FIG. 4.
 FIG. 18 is a schematic diagram of another embodiment of a nonlinear load in accordance with the present invention.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION
 FIG. 1 is a schematic diagram of an embodiment of a squaring cell in accordance with the present invention. Squaring cell includes a transistor Q1 configured in a grounded base arrangement with its base connected to receive a bias voltage VBIAS. The circuit of FIG. 1 is shown in a BJT embodiment, but could also be realized in a field-effect transistor (FET) embodiment (e.g., CMOS). In the context of Q1, grounded base refers to any type of transistor or other current control device having its control terminal (i.e., the base of a BJT or the gate of an FET) connected to an AC ground. The emitter of Q1 is connected to the base and collector of NPN transistor Q2, which forms a current mirror with transistor Q3. The collectors of diode-connected transistor Q1 and mirror transistor Q3 are connected together at the output terminal 16 of the cell for providing the output current IOUT. The input signal is generated by a voltage source VIN having a source resistance RS. The input current IIN is input to the input terminal 22 which is connected to the emitter of Q1 and the base-collector terminals of Q2. The emitters of Q2 and Q3 are connected to a power supply ground terminal GND. A blocking capacitor CDC eliminates DC input currents which would be caused by the input terminal 22 being at a VBE above GND.
The squaring cell of FIG. 1 is biased by an adjunct cell which includes two series-connected transistors Q12 and Q13 that are diode-connected in series between the bias node 20 and GND. The base of Q1 is also connected to the bias node 20. A current source 14 applies a bias current I0 to the collector of Q12 to set up the bias voltage VBIAS. The resulting quiescent (zero-signal) current in Q1–Q3 is proportional to absolute temperature (PTAT).
It can be shown that the output current IOUT from the squaring cell of FIG. 1 has the following form: 
       I OUT  =   I 0  ⁢    x 2  + 4        (  Eq .     ⁢ 1  )      

where x=IIN/I0, and assuming all transistors have the same emitter areas.

 FIG. 2 is a graph showing the function of Eq. 1 as a solid line, from which it is apparent that, for small values of x, the function of Eq. 1 takes on a curvature reaching a minimum value of 2I0 at x=0 which will be referred to as the quiescent or zero-signal baseline current. The zero signal baseline current can be removed from Eq. 1 to yield: 
       I SQR  =    I OUT  -  2 ⁢  I 0    =    I 0  ⁢    x 2  + 4    -  2 ⁢   I 0  .         (  Eq .     ⁢ 2  )       
By rearranging this equation and using the approximation: 
         1 + a   ≈  1 +  a 2    ,     (  Eq .     ⁢ 3  )       
it can be shown that 
       I SQR  ≈    x 2  4  ⁢  I 0       (  Eq .     ⁢ 4  )       
when the magnitude of x is small (<<4). Thus, for input currents that are small compared to I0, the circuit of FIG. 1 can closely approximate a squaring function.

For values of x>>4, Eq. 1 can be approximated by: 
        I OUT  ≈   I 0  ⁢   x 2     =   I 0  ⁢   x        (  Eq .     ⁢ 5  )      

which is the absolute-value function. Thus, for relatively large values of input current IIN, the output current is approximately equal to the absolute-value of the input current. The function of Eq. 5 is shown in FIG. 2 as a broken line for comparison to the function of Eq. 1.

Therefore, if the input signal IIN applied to the squaring cell of FIG. 1 is limited to less than about ±4I0, the squaring cell provides a good square-law approximation. That is, the optimum function of the squaring cell is limited to the curved portion of the solid curve shown in FIG. 2 which approximates a parabola.
 FIG. 3 is a simplified schematic diagram of an embodiment of an RMS-to-DC converter in accordance with the present invention which uses the squaring cell of FIG. 1 to implement the difference of squares function. The circuit of FIG. 3 is intended for fabrication in monolithic form on an integrated circuit.
The circuit of FIG. 3 includes a first squaring cell which will be referred to as a high frequency or “HF” squaring cell. The HF squaring cell is formed from NPN transistors Q1–Q3 which are arranged in the same manner as the squaring cell of FIG. 1, but with the addition of a further NPN transistor Q4 which has its collector connected to the collector of Q1 at node 16, its emitter connected to the collector of Q3, and its base connected to the base of Q1. Transistor Q4 acts as a cascode to Q3 and serves to improve the overall accuracy by equalizing the collector-base voltage of Q3 to that of Q2. In the context of Q4, cascode refers to a transistor having its control terminal (i.e., the base of a BJT or the gate of a FET) connected to an AC ground for the purpose of improving the accuracy of the circuit and/or counteracting the effects of the collector-junction capacitance (CJC) of another bipolar transistor such as Q3 (or the drain-gate capacitance of a field-effect transistor).
The circuit of FIG. 3 includes a second, identical squaring cell which will be referred to as a “DC” squaring cell. The DC squaring cell includes NPN transistors Q5–Q8 which are configured in the same arrangement as Q1–Q4. The collectors of Q5 and Q8 are connected together at node 18. The bases of Q1, Q4, Q5 and Q8 are commonly connected at node 20 to receive the same bias voltage VBIAS. Base resistors can be connected between the bases and collectors of Q2 and Q6 to compensate for the alpha of the transistors.
The bias voltage VBIAS is generated at bias node 20 by an adjunct cell including NPN transistors Q12–Q14 and current source 14. The adjunct cell is in most respects similar to that of FIG. 1 but with the addition of transistor Q14 which is arranged to supply all of the DC base currents thereby improving the bias accuracy. A capacitor C6 is coupled between node 20 and GND to make this a low impedance node. The overall power consumption of the circuit of FIG. 3 can be reduced by using a lower bias current I0 through the adjunct cell transistors Q12 and Q13 and then reducing the emitter areas of Q12 and Q13 with respect to Q1, Q2, Q4, Q5, Q6 and Q7.
The circuit of FIG. 3 further includes an error amplifier which includes load resistors RL1 and RL2 and an operational amplifier 28. The load resistors RL1 and RL2 are connected between the positive power supply terminal VPOS and nodes 16 and 18, respectively. An on-chip filter capacitor C1 is connected in parallel with RL1 for extracting the mean value of the output current generated by the HF squaring cell. A bonding pad 26 is provided at node 16 to allow the addition of an external capacitor C2 in parallel with C1 in order to extend the averaging interval.
Operational amplifier 28 has its inverting and noninverting terminals connected to nodes 16 and 18, respectively, and its output terminal connected to the bases of transistors Q9 and Q10. Although shown as bipolar transistors, Q9 and Q10 would be very suitable for implementation as PMOS devices in a BiCMOS realization.
The input stage of op-amp 28 must be designed to accommodate a large common-mode voltage swing at its input terminals. The emitters of Q9 and Q10 are connected to VPOS through resistors R1 and R2, respectively. The collector of Q9 is connected to the base of Q7 at node 32 which forms the input terminal to the DC squaring cell. The collector of Q10 is connected to the collector and base of diode-connected NPN transistor Q11 which serves to equalize the collector voltages of Q9 and Q1 under quiescent conditions. The emitter of Q11 is connected to GND through resistor R3 which converts output current IOUTPUT to a voltage. A buffer amplifier 30 has an input terminal connected to the emitter of Q11 and an output terminal for providing the final output voltage VOUT. A capacitor C3 is connected between the output terminal of the op-amp 28 and the collector of Q10 to provide high frequency stabilization of the (nonlinear) feedback system.
In operation, the circuit of FIG. 3 generates a voltage VOUT that is a quasi-DC signal which is essentially proportional to the true RMS value of the input signal. In FIG. 3, the input signal is shown as being provided by a signal generator 24 which is coupled to the HF squaring cell through a DC-blocking capacitor C4 connected to input terminal 22. The HF and DC squaring cells operate in opposition to generate the first and second currents I1 and I2 in RL1 and RL2, respectively. A nulling circuit, which includes capacitor C1 (and C2 if present), the error amplifier, and transistor Q9, equalizes the currents I1 and I2 over an averaging period which is long compared to the signal period or that of the modulation components thereon.
The first current I1 is low-pass filtered by capacitor C1 which shunts load resistor RL1. The currents I1 and I2 are converted into voltages by load resistors RL1 and RL2 at nodes 16 and 18, respectively. Op-amp 28 drives transistor Q9 which converts the voltage output from the op-amp to a feedback current IFB which drives the DC squaring cell, thereby closing a feedback loop through the DC squaring cell. The feedback loop nulls the imbalance caused by the output generated by the HF squaring cell.
Transistor Q10 replicates the current through Q9 (optionally with a change in scaling factor including R1 and R2) to provide the current IOUTPUT to R3. Resistor R3 converts the current IOUTPUT to a voltage which is buffered by buffer amplifier 30 to generate the output voltage VOUT having a ground-referenced value. For good accuracy, it is important to maintain the collectors of Q9 and Q10 at the same voltage, so transistor Q11 is included to replicate the base-emitter voltage across Q6 and Q7, and the value of R3 may chosen to replicate the impedance seen at the input to the HF squaring cell.
The arrangement of a DC squaring cell in a feedback path implements the implicit square-root function. Thus, the HF squaring cell provides the “square”, the filter capacitor C1 provides the “mean”, and the DC squaring cell in the feedback path provides the “root” of the “root-mean-square” (RMS) function. However, for signals below the low-pass filter frequency, the circuit provides the absolute-value function.
Since a squaring cells doubles the dynamic range of an input signal, the squaring cells, the load resistors, and the op-amp must be very well-balanced to maintain an accurate RMS-to-DC conversion for small inputs. An RMS-to-DC converter in accordance with the present invention is preferably embodied in a monolithic implementation in which this balance can be achieved through interdigitation and cross-quadding of the squaring cells and load resistors, as well as by attention to detail in numerous such ways in the error amplifier. Thus, the balance between the squaring cells should be achieved through the physical structure (layout) of the cells, as well as by careful design. The use of a common bias voltage VBIAS for both squaring cells contributes to the balance between the cells; in particular, the balance does not depend on the absolute-value of the bias current because the dual squaring cell structure inherently equalizes the zero-signal baseline current. However, the value of the bias current I0 affects the input impedance of the cells, and this dictates the need for suitably accurate bias control.
Load resistors RL1 and RL2 are chosen to provide the largest possible voltage swing across these resistors and thus provide maximum sensitivity at low input levels. However, using high resistance load resistors limits the peak input signal range because, as the currents I1 and I2 increase, the voltage at the collectors of Q1 and Q4 decreases, and these transistors will saturate if the voltage drops too low. In a preferred embodiment, the load resistors are made non-linear as described below to improve the input signal range.
Although the circuit shown in FIG. 3 is configured in a measurement mode, it can also be reconfigured as a controller by disconnecting the collector of Q9 from node 32 and using the voltage VOUT as a control signal to control the gain of a variable gain device such as an RF power amplifier. The output signal from the power amplifier is then sampled with a directional coupler and used as the input signal to the HF squaring cell. The overall system can be arranged to regulate the true output power of the amplifier to a value determined by a set-point signal applied to the input of the DC squaring cell at node 32. (Another arrangement for providing both measurement or control modes of operation is described below with respect to FIG. 10.)
An advantage of the circuit of FIG. 3 is that it provides true RMS detection even at very high input frequencies and at low power supply currents. In FIG. 3, only the four transistors Q1–Q4 in the HF squaring cell must operate at RF frequencies. The first squared current I1 is immediately filtered by C1, so the remainder of the circuit can operate at much lower frequencies. The loop bandwidth of the feedback path is determined by the filter time-constant RL1C1 (or RL1 (C1+C2) if C2 is present) and the poles in the transfer function of the op-amp 28, largely determined by the transconductance (gm) of its input stage and the capacitor C3.
This structure is well suited to applications in demanding systems such as carrier division multiple access (CDMA) which entail complicated modulation envelopes with high crest factors imposed on a high-frequency carrier. From the perspective of power measurement, CDMA modulation appears very similar to noise of high crest factor, which requires the use of a filter with a long time constant to measure the true power of the full modulation, while the RMS-to-DC converter must have enough bandwidth to accurately respond to the carrier frequency. The HF squaring cell of FIG. 3 can be fast enough to respond to even a microwave carrier, while C1 can increased without limit by the connection of an external capacitor C2 to assure that the filter time constant is as long as necessary to measure the true power of any modulation envelope on a time-scale of milliseconds or even longer.
A key feature of the dual squaring cell configuration of the circuit of FIG. 3 is that the zero-signal baseline currents of the two squaring cells are highly balanced for all conditions of bias current, temperature and supply voltage. The use of dual squaring cells and the nulling process also results in some cancellation of the square-law conformance errors between the two cells, thereby reducing the effect of these errors for signals of high crest factor.
A further advantage of a squaring cell in accordance with the present invention is that, not only does it provide a good square-law approximation over a certain input range, but it still provides useful power-measurement capabilities even when the magnitude of the input signal exceeds the square-law range. Referring to FIG. 2, when the input signal is large, the output function of the squaring cell (shown as a solid line) no longer approximates a parabola (curved portion of the function), but instead begins to converge on the absolute-value function (shown as broken lines). However, even when the input signal is large enough to cause the squaring cells to operate as absolute-value cells, the circuit of FIG. 3 still operates as an excellent AC voltmeter. This is in contrast to squaring cells based on other techniques such as, for example, the multi-tanh triplet transconductance cells described in co-pending application Ser. No. 09/245,051 which have a more limited large-signal capacity.
A general problem with integrated-circuit RMS-to-DC converters operating at low currents, and thus low current densities, its that they may be too slow to operate at high RF frequencies. However, by implementing the circuit of FIG. 3 using “low inertia” transistors of small device geometries (such as those currently available with bipolar processing technologies that produce transistors having an fT of 25 GHz), good high frequency operation (i.e., upwards of 3 GHz) can be achieved even at low bias currents.
Another advantage of the squaring cells shown in FIGS. 1 and 3 is that they provide a well-defined input impedance that can also be adjusted by a simple adjustment of the bias current I0. The incremental (small-signal) resistance re of a BJT is given by re=VT/I0 where VT is the thermal voltage (≈26 mV at 300K) and I0 is the quiescent or bias current. Thus, at a bias current of 260 μA, Q1 and Q2 each have an re of 100 ohms which, operating effectively in parallel, gives the cell a 50-ohm input impedance. The bias currents through the squaring cells should be proportional to absolute temperature (PTAT) so that the input impedance remains constant with temperature. It should also be noted that the input to the HF squaring cell behaves more as a matching network than as a termination network, so it is not necessary to use additional resistors to define the input impedance.
For several reasons, it may be preferable to configure the circuit of FIG. 3 for some other impedance, for example 200 ohms rather than 50 ohms. First, a squaring cell in accordance with the present invention has a “VT scaling”; that is, it provides a good square-law approximation for input voltages that are roughly in the range of about ±2VT. For this full scale input voltage range (about ±50 mV), a 200-ohm input impedance provides a power sensitivity (to a certain available power) that is four times greater than the sensitivity of a 50-ohm impedance. Second, a higher input impedance mandates lower bias currents, and thus, less power is dissipated in both squaring cells. Finally, it allows for the use of a 200-ohm directional coupler when the circuit is used to measure the power from an antenna driven by an RF power amplifier. It should also be noted that it is easy to use a matching network to couple a 200-ohm input to a 50-ohm source if necessary.
The upper end of the dynamic range of the circuit of FIG. 3 is determined largely by the departure from square-law behavior at high input signal levels. The lower end of the dynamic range is determined largely by the balance that can be achieved in the system, including the matching of the transistors in the squaring cells. Since the transconductance of these cells is very small near the vertical axis, small input voltages cause only tiny changes in their output. The error-amplifier system must be able to respond to the very small changes in the currents I1 and I2 if it is to accurately measure the input signal.
The square-law behavior discussed above with respect to Eqs. 1–5 and FIG. 2 is defined in terms of a pure current input. However, the HF squaring cell is driven in an impedance mode in conjunction with the input signal generator. The impedance signal generator and the input impedance of the circuit of FIG. 1 affect the square-law behavior as illustrated with reference to FIGS. 12–15.
 FIG. 12 shows a simulation result of the baseline-corrected and normalized output current (solid line) for the circuit of FIG. 1 compared to an ideal square-law function (broken line) using a voltage source coupled to the input terminal 22 through a resistor of 129 ohms. The bias current I0 is 100 μA, and the voltage source generates a voltage VGEN=Y(kT/q), where kT/q is the thermal voltage VT (≈26 mV at 300K). Thus, the horizontal axis is a normalized input voltage. The 129 ohm source impedance is the nominal input impedance of the squaring cell when I0 is 100 μA.
 FIG. 13 shows the error between the actual output and the ideal square-law function, i.e., the difference between the solid and broken lines, in FIG. 12. The error obtained from this group of parameters ranges from 0 to about +2.5 percent as Y swings from −2.5 to +2.5.
 FIGS. 14 and 15 show the simulation results for an optimized arrangement utilizing a source resistance of 50 ohms and I0=75 μA. In this case, the actual (solid line) and ideal (broken line) curves track closely. The error only ranges from −0.35 to about +0.1 percent as Y swings from −2.5 to +2.5.
One way to achieve a good square-law conformance in the circuit of FIGS. 1 and 3 is to limit the input current range and use large bias current I0. However, a more robust solution can be obtained by using emitter resistors RE in series with Q1, Q2 and Q3 as shown in FIG. 4. These resistors contribute to the input impedance of the squaring cell, so to maintain a given input impedance, the bias current must be increased to reduce the re of the transistors accordingly. The use of higher bias currents raises the fT of the transistors and thus improves the speed of the circuit.
While the resulting circuit uses more power and the input tends to look more like a termination and less like a matching network, there are overall benefits to this modification. For example, the resistors increase the voltage input range of the squaring cells, and improve the overall square-law approximation as is illustrated in FIGS. 16 and 17 which show simulation results for the circuit of FIG. 4 with emitter resistors RE=140 ohms to provide a 200-ohm input impedance, and using I0=100 μA and a source impedance of 200 ohms. As is apparent from FIGS. 16 and 17, the emitter resistors allow the circuit of FIG. 4 to operate accurately over a large range of input voltages. The error in this case ranges from about −2.5 to +2.5 percent as Y swings from −5.5 to +5.5.
An alternative embodiment of a squaring cell in accordance with the present invention uses inductors as shown in FIG. 5 in place of the emitter resistors. In this case, the output characteristics of the squaring cell are frequency dependent.
 FIG. 6 shows another embodiment of a squaring cell in accordance with the present invention. The circuit of FIG. 6 includes a squaring cell essentially as shown in FIG. 4, but with an overlapping pure translinear (resistorless) squaring cell. That is, there is an additional transistor connected in parallel with each of the transistor-resistor pairs of FIG. 4. The transistors without emitter resistors have unit emitter areas “e”, while the transistors with emitter resistors have emitter areas of A times “e”. By vary the contribution from the emitter-degenerated and fully translinear portions of the circuit of FIG. 6, it is possible to take advantage of the relative advantage of both forms of the circuit. This configuration can provide improved performance, especially when driven from a pure voltage source, although it provides similar improvements when impedance driven. It provides a lower error over a larger range of input and provides much greater peak current output while preserving accuracy. Some optimum parameters for this circuit have been determined to be as follows: emitter area ratio A=62 and RE=32.5 ohms when using I0=100 μA and a pure voltage drive.
 FIG. 7 is a schematic diagram of an embodiment of a pair of balanced squaring cells in accordance with the present invention. Each squaring cell in FIG. 7 is implemented as a pair of parallel connected cells. Thus, squaring cells A and B operate in parallel as the HF squaring cell, and cells C and D operate in parallel as the DC squaring cell. The squaring cells are physically arranged on a substrate in a full cross-quad configuration as shown in FIG. 8 so that the effects of thermal and doping gradients as well as mechanical stress are cancelled as much as possible to provide good balance between the cells.
An emitter resistor RE is connected in series with the emitter of each of transistors Q1–Q3 and Q5–Q7 as well as the emitters of corresponding transistors Q1A–Q3A and Q5A–Q7A in the respective parallel squaring cells. A base resistor RB is connected in series with the base of each of transistors Q1–Q3, Q5–Q7, Q1A–Q3A, and Q5A–Q7A. When emitter resistors are included, the bias current must be adjusted to maintain the overall input impedance of the squaring cell at the desired value.
Some preferred design parameters for the circuit of FIG. 7 are as follows: RE=160 Ω; RB=500 Ω; and quiescent bias current through each transistor I0=42 μAP (where P indicates PTAT). Using the equation re=VT/I0, it can be seen that the electronic resistance of each transistor is re=620, and therefore, the resistance total of each transistor and its associated emitter resistor RE is about 800 Ω which results in an input impedance of about 200 Ω. This bias current and emitter resistor values adjust the fit of the square-law approximation as discussed above to provide an RMS-to-DC converter that has a dynamic range of about 30 dB at 2 GHz operating from a 2.7V supply.
To reduce quiescent current consumption of the pair of squaring cells shown in FIG. 7, the DC squaring cell can be implemented as a single, rather than double, cell. In this case, the parallel cell labeled “D” in FIG. 7 is eliminated, and the remaining cells A, B and C are laid out in a linear arrangement in which the HF cells A and B are positioned on opposite sides of the DC cell C as shown in FIG. 9. The resistance of RL2 must increased by a factor of two to compensate for the reduction of the output current I2 which results from the use of a single DC squaring cell.
Although the embodiments of the present invention described herein are implemented with BJTs, FETs can also be used, and in such an implementation, the BJT terminology should be understood to refer to the corresponding FET terminology. For example, a grounded base transistor would refer to a grounded gate transistor, emitter resistors would refer to source resistors, VBE would refer to VGS, and so forth.
 FIG. 10 is a simplified schematic of a practical embodiment of a nulling circuit and output buffer in accordance with the present invention. The circuit of FIG. 10 includes a filter capacitor C1, load resistors RL1 and RL2 and op-amp 28 configured as in FIG. 3. However, the primary load resistor RL1 is connected in parallel with an additional current path formed by diode connected transistors Q15 and Q16 connected in series with a secondary load resistor RL1A. Likewise, the primary load resistor RL2 is connected in parallel with an additional current path formed by diode connected transistors Q17 and Q18 connected in series with a secondary load resistor RL2A. Resistor values in a practical embodiment are RL1,RL2=2.5KΩ and RL1A,RL2A=1.25KΩ. Although the circuit of FIG. 10 is shown with two diodes connected in series with each of load resistors RL1A,RL2A, a different number may be used.
The load resistors and series connected diodes of FIG. 10 taken together form a nonlinear loading system which extends the dynamic range of the overall system by preventing the transistors in the squaring cells from saturating. When the input signal to the system is small, the currents I1 and I2 flow entirely through the relatively high-resistance primary load resistors, which results in a large voltage swing, thereby maintaining the sensitivity to low input signals. However, as the input signal becomes larger, the diodes conduct progressively, and the secondary load resistors prevent the voltage drop across the loading circuit from becoming too great, thereby preventing the transistors in the squaring cells from saturating.
Transistors Q9 and Q10 of FIG. 10 are connected to operate with a common VBE. Transistor Q9 is implemented as two transistors Q9A and Q9B in parallel. The collector of Q9 is connected to the input of the DC squaring cell at node 32 through a diode-connected transistor Q19 in series with a 150 Ω resistor R4. The collector of Q10 is connected to GND through two diode-connected transistors Q20 and Q11 in series with a 447 Ω resistor R3. Resistor R3 converts the current IOUT to a voltage at the noninverting input terminal of an op-amp 30. The output voltage VOUT from the op-amp is made available to the user at pin 34. In this embodiment, the inverting input terminal of op-amp 30 is also made available to the user at pin 36.
In a measurement mode, VOUT is connected directly back to VSET, or via a simple off-chip resistive attenuator R8 and R9 in order to raise the scale factor. In a controller mode, VOUT performs the control function, e.g., is used to control the gain of the driver to a power amplifier, and the set-point signal is applied to VSET. The circuit of FIG. 10 can also be used to implement a simple RF comparator, in which case the input signal is applied to the HF squaring cell, and the threshold voltage is applied to VSET. In this mode, VOUT switches quickly to one extreme or the other when the voltage across R3—the filtered mean of the square of VIN (that is, the RMS value of the input signal)—equals VSET.
Transistor Q20 provides a voltage drop that corresponds to the voltage drop across Q19, and Q11 provides a voltage drop that corresponds to the VBE at the input to the HF squaring cell. Resistor R3 provides a resistance that corresponds to the resistor R4 and the input impedance of the HF squaring cell. Transistors Q11, Q19 and Q20 are arranged to maintain the collectors of Q9 and Q10 at equal voltages so as to improve the matching of the currents IOUT and IFB. Transistors Q9 and Q10 should preferably have small current sources coupled to their collectors to prevent them from turning off completely for small input levels.
 FIG. 18 is a schematic diagram of another embodiment of a nonlinear load in accordance with the present invention. The circuit of FIG. 18 includes load resistor RL1 connected between the output terminal of the HF squaring cell 16 and a node 40. Another load resistor RL2 connected between the output terminal of the DC squaring cell 18 and node 40. Node 40 is connected to VPOS through a resistor R0. Transistors Q15 and Q17, rather than being diode connected, have their bases connected to node 40 and their collectors connected to VPOS. Secondary load resistor RL1A is connected between the emitter of Q15 and terminal 16, while secondary load resistor RL2A is connected between the emitter of Q17 and terminal 18. The circuit of FIG. 18 provides increased sensitivity at low current levels, while still allowing large maximum currents.
 FIG. 11 is a simplified schematic of a practical embodiment of a bias voltage generator in accordance with the present invention. The circuit of FIG. 11 generates a bias voltage VBIAS at node 20 that varies with temperature such that it causes the bias current through each transistor in the squaring cells to be proportional to absolute temperature. However, it does so in a different manner than the circuit shown in FIG. 3. The circuit of FIG. 3 generates the bias voltage VBIAS at node 20 by simply using a PTAT current I0 flowing through Q12 and Q13 to generate the necessary voltage the base of Q12. In contrast, the circuit of FIG. 11 generates this voltage somewhat indirectly.
The circuit of FIG. 11 is based on a ΔVBE cell such as that described with reference to FIG. 19 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08/918,728 filed Aug. 21, 1997 titled “RF Mixer With Inductive Degeneration” which is herein incorporated by reference. However, in the circuit of FIG. 11, the collector of emitter follower transistor Q26, rather than driving the ΔVBE cell Q21, Q22 directly, is connected to the base of NPN transistor Q28. The collector of Q28 is connected to VPOS through a 7.6KΩ resistor R5, and its emitter is connected to the base of Q22 to drive the ΔVBE cell. Another NPN transistor Q29 is connected as a diode between the emitter of Q28 and GND, and NPN current source transistor Q27 has its base connected to the base of Q22, its emitter connected to GND, and its collector connected to the emitter of Q26. The base of Q28 is connected to node 20 through a 234 Ω resistor R10.
In operation, Q28 forms a nonlinear voltage divider with Q29. The PTAT bias voltage VBIAS, is generated at the emitter of Q26 which is held at 2VBE above GND by Q28 and Q29. A second PTAT bias voltage VBIAS2 is generated at the base of Q22 and used for biasing components in the output buffer 30. A third bias voltage VBIAS3 is generated at the emitter of Q24 and used for biasing components in the error amplifier.
Resistor RIO has the effect of lowering the DC bias of the squaring cells as a function of the DC beta to peak the drive to Q3 so that the current mirror has very similar phase characteristics to Q2, thereby improving the robustness of the circuit.
Having described and illustrated the principles of the invention in a preferred embodiment thereof, it should be apparent that the invention can be modified in arrangement and detail without departing from such principles. We claim all modifications and variations coming within the spirit and scope of the following claims.